:صﺎﺨﻟﺎﺑ ﻲﻟ ﻢﻜﺑرﺎﺠﺗو ﻢﻜﺗﺎﻌﯿﻤﺠﺗ ﻞﻘﻨﺑ ﻢﻜﻧوﺎﻌﺗ جﺎﺘﺤﻧ
https://t.me/SMLE_TOP10
AboSarah
Channel: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/20970
ﺮﺒﻛأ ﷲو ﷲ ﱠﻻإ ﮫﻟإ ﻻو لله ﺪﻤﺤﻟاو ﷲ نﺎﺤﺒﺳ
🔥
لماش All Jan to 28 Sep 2026 Recalls from:
SMLE-TOP10 & Silent
By AboSarah & Haneen
ﻢﯿﻗﺮﺘﻟﺎﺑ ﺔﻠﺧاد ﺮﯿﻏ ﺔﮭﺑﺎﺸﻤﻟا ﺔﻠﺌﺳﻷا ﺐﻠﻏأ
.ةراﺮﻜﺗ نوﺪﺑ ﻂﻘﻓ ةﺪﺣاو ةﺮﻣ ﺮﻛﺬﯾ لاﺆﺴﻟا ﻲﻨﻌﯾ ، ﺖﻗﻮﻠﻟ ًﺎﻈﻔﺣ راﺮﻜﺗ نوﺪﺑ ﻒﻠﻤﻟا نﻮﻜﯾ نﺎﻜﻣﻹا رﺪﻗ لوﺎﺤﻨﺑ
بيغلا رهظب ةحلاصلا مكتاوعدب انعم نينواعتملا نوسنت ال ، مكبرد لهسيو مكقفوي هللا
Last UPDATE
of Recalls From All Telegram Channels in 28 Sep 2026
. راﺮﻤﺘﺳﺈﺑ ﮫﺜﯾﺪﺤﺗ ﻢﺘﯾ
ﻢﮭﻨﻣ ﺪﺣاو ﻲﻓ لاﺆﺴﻟا دﻮﺟﻮﻣ ﻲﻨﻌﯾ MG & GB ﺔﻣﻼﻋ✔
Gameboy & Medgard files
.ماﺮﻘﯿﻠﯿﺘﻟا تاﻮﻨﻗ بﺎﺤﺻأ ﻊﻣ ﻢﮭﻧوﺎﻌﺗو ﻦﯾﺮﺒﺘﺨﻤﻟا ﻮھ ﻲﺳﺎﺳﻷا ﺎھرﺪﺼﻣ تﺎﻌﯿﻤﺠﺘﻟا نﻷ ، ﻒﻠﻤﻟا اﺬھ ﻲﻓ ًﺎﻌﯿﻤﺟ ءﺎﻛﺮﺷ ﻢﺘﻧأ ، لوﺬﺒﻤﻟا ﺪﮭﺠﻟاو ﻞﻤﻌﻟا اﺬھ ﻢﻜﻨﻣو ﺎّﻨﻣ ﻞّﺒﻘﺗ ﻢﮭﻠﻟا
Our References: First: MG & GB & Confirmed files Then AMBOSS , UTD , Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine, 24th Edition , Current therapy,
Schwartz, Mont Reid, Surgical recall, Bailey & love , ATLS , HAKER ,Dynamed , Medscape , Cleveland Clinic & Myo Clinic , NIH and Answers from doctors who
scored 100% in the mentioned and disputed questions & trusted Websites like NCBI & American association of hear , paediatrics & Harvard Society & ACOG.
We don’t add recalls of ( my exam files, You have to study them from files which are in telegram channels )
📚
Medical Library: https://t.me/Medical_Library_SMLE_TOP10
📚
For New Doctors Here Are All Studying plans + Essential files + Courses + Monthly Files + All Materials &
⬇
resources of Studying of SMLE are here
https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/35319
📚
File link:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/11nbCOCMAhIE2B7LdIEEC3sjkmWaZTWk-MBRCuulvmEU/edit?usp=d
rivesdk
📚
Free AMBOSS account:
Username: smlestudy90@gmail.com
Password: smlestudy90
For editing, contact me through telegram: https://t.me/SMLE_TOP10

1- A patient was planned for total knee replacement and the surgeon was about to make the incision on the wrong leg, a
nurse knew but kept quite, one of the staff checked the patient’s file before the incision and discovered it’s the wrong leg,
how to prevent such case?
A- Nurse shouldn’t say anything and assume that surgeon knows better
B- Review the patient’s chart
✅
C- Proper marking prior to the surgery
AboSarah: (Patient safety & surgical error prevention). This case describes a near-miss wrong-site surgery, which is a serious
and preventable medical error. According to WHO Surgical Safety Checklist, Joint Commission, and standard surgical safety
✅
protocols, the most effective preventive step is: C- Proper site marking before surgery
- The correct surgical site must be marked clearly.
- Marking is usually done by the operating surgeon.
It is performed:
- Before the patient enters the operating room.
- With the patient awake when possible.
- Using an indelible marker.
This is a part of the Universal Protocol to prevent:
- Wrong patient
- Wrong procedure
- Wrong site surgery
2- A new screening test for breast lesions was compared with a mammogram. Out of 1000 patients, the mammogram
detected 200 positive cases. The new test detected 180 cases and missed 20 (false negatives). What is the sensitivity of the
new test?
✅
90%
Q: A screening mammogram is used as the reference standard for breast cancer detection in a population of 1,000 women. The
mammogram identifies 200 women as having breast cancer. A new screening test is evaluated against the mammogram: It
correctly identifies 180 of the women who were positive on mammography. It misses 20 women who were positive on
mammography. Among the 800 women the new test identifies 50 women as false positive. What is the sensitivity of the new
screening test?
A. 70%
B. 80%
C. 90%✅
D.100%
3- A 9-week primigravida vegetarian since 4 years presented to the clinic with concerns about her fetus. Which vitamin
is most important to assess?
✅
A- Vitamin B12
B- Vitamin K
C- Vitamin C
D- Vitamin E

AboSarah: According to UpToDate and ACOG: A pregnant woman who has been vegetarian for several years is at risk of
vitamin B12 deficiency, especially if she follows a strict vegetarian or vegan diet.
Vitamin B12 is important in pregnancy because Vitamin B12 is essential for: DNA synthesis & Red blood cell formation & Fetal neural development.
Deficiency can lead to:
- Megaloblastic anemia in the mother or Neural tube defects in infant or Developmental delay in the infant.
Vegetarians are at risk,,,,, Vitamin B12 is found mainly in: Meat, Fish, Eggs, Dairy products ,,,e.g
Long-term vegetarians (especially vegans) may have low body stores.
Vitamin K: Deficiency is rare in pregnancy. Usually related to newborn hemorrhagic disease, not maternal diet.
Vitamin C: Found in fruits and vegetables. Vegetarians usually have adequate or high intake.
Vitamin E: Deficiency is very rare and not a typical concern in vegetarian pregnancy.
In pregnant vegetarians or vegans, always think of: ✅Vitamin B12 deficiency
4- A 28-year-old man who recently joined military service and underwent excessive military training presents to the
Emergency Department with lightheadedness on standing and fatigue. Physical examination reveals postural
hypotension, otherwise unremarkable. Urine osmolality is elevated >500 mOsm/kg. What is the most likely etiology for
his acute kidney injury?
A. Pre-renal azotemia
B. Acute interstitial nephritis
C. Acute glomerulonephritis
D. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN)
5- Child fell from tree, vomiting, head swelling, he became drowsy. What is the MOST APPROPRIATE management?
A. Hematoma evacuation
B. Intubation
6- child fells from 2 meters now he is vomiting multiple times and sleepy. He has left side weakness , CT shows
extradural hemorrhage. BEST MANAGEMENT?
A. hematoma evacuation
B. Intubate and secure the airway
Q: 12/16 years old girl fall 2 meters while playing, The loss of consciousness then vomited many times and then become
sleepy, in examination there is head hematoma and left limb weakness and sign of lateralization, CT brain show extra
dural hematoma with midline shift. ( no GCS in the Qs) What is the best next management?
A. haematoma evacuation.
B. Intubate and secure the airway.
C. Admit and observe.
D. repeat the CT scan after 12 hours.
Q: Hematoma with 6mm midline shift
A. Craniotomy

Midline Shift > 5mm ➔ Craniotomy
7- The PSA been used worldwide to detect prostate cancer, but nowadays doctor noticed that it has low specificity witch
lead to over treatment, what is the inclusion criteria for psa to be used ?
?? A- It should be used for people with high risk or family history
B- It should be used for people who had symptoms
?? C- It should detect the highest number of people
⬇
ﺎﻨھ اﺬھ لاﺆﺴﻟﺎﺑ ﻢﻜﯾأر ﺎﻧﻮﻄﻋا
https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/42348
8- 7-year-old child presents with recurrent tonsillitis (six episodes in the past year), snoring, mouth breathing during
sleep, and has grade three tonsils. What is the most appropriate management option for this patient?
A. Family Counseling
B. Stop Medication
C. Tonsillectomy
D. Sleep Study
9- 70 year-old female known case of DM, HTN and dyslipidemia admitted to stroke unit after presenting with ischemic
stroke 2 days ago and was managed by anti platelets and physiotherapy, now he is presenting with fatigue VITAL
SIGNS WERE NORMAL (literally mentioned like this) All labs were normal EXCEPT RBS was 12.6 what is the most
appropriate management?
A- Observe
B- Warfarin
C- Insulin infusion
D- tPA
10- A 41 year old woman presents to the clinic requests contraception with no complaints. What is the most appropriate
investigation to perform before prescribing contraception? (The Case Didn’t Mention Any AUB Or Any Menstrual
Irregularities)
A. FSH
B. TSH
C. Transvaginal Ultrasound
D. Endometrial biopsy
??????
Q: A 41 year old woman presents with abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) For SIX MONTHS and requests contraception.
What is the most Important investigation to perform before prescribing contraception?
A) FSH
B) TSH
C) Ultrasound

D) Endometrial biopsy
Q:
11- Old patient with DM and CKD and intermittent claudication (no symptoms of heart failure or chest pain) Echo
normal All normal values Presented complaining of atrial fibrillation How to control ventricular rate (written like this)
A-digoxin
B- lostran
C- Metoprolol
✅✅
D- diltiatzem
PAD تﻻﺎﺣ ﻲﻓ beta bloker ﺐﻨﺠﺘﻧ
For atrial fibrillation (AF) with no heart failure and normal echocardiogram, the first-line drugs for ventricular rate control are:
- Beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol)
- or Non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (e.g., diltiazem, verapamil)
Why PAD Changes the Answer?
In patients with:
● Peripheral vascular disease
● Raynaud
● Severe claudication
Avoid beta-blockers (especially non-selective ones). Even though metoprolol is β1 selective, exams prefer diltiazem in PAD.
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) = atherosclerotic narrowing of peripheral arteries → ↓ blood flow to legs → intermittent claudication
The problem in PAD is already: Poor peripheral circulation
What Do Beta-Blockers Do?
Beta receptors:
•β1 → Heart (↓ HR, ↓ contractility)
•β2 → Peripheral blood vessels (vasodilation)
When you block β2:
- You reduce vasodilation.
- You allow unopposed α-mediated vasoconstriction.

- Peripheral circulation may worsen.
This can increase claudication pain & worsen cold extremities
What About Metoprolol?
Metoprolol is β1-selective , So in real life:
•It usually does NOT significantly worsen PAD
•It is often safe
BUT in board-style questions: AF + PAD
→ Prefer non-dihydropyridine CCB (diltiazem)
→ Avoid beta-blockers if another good option exists
Because:
•CCBs do NOT reduce peripheral perfusion
•They may even mildly vasodilate
So when both are acceptable for AF: Choose the drug that does NOT potentially worsen PAD
That is diltiazem.
When two drugs can do the job: Avoid the one that worsens a comorbidity.
Here:
•Metoprolol → possible PAD worsening
•Diltiazem → neutral for PAD
So answer = Diltiazem
Q: A 60-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and intermitent claudicaion due is diagnosed to have stable
angina. Decision is made to manage him with intensive medical therapy. He is
started on aspirin, rosuvastain and nitroglycerine but sill gets angina with moderate exercise.
Blood pressure 130/85 mmHg
Heart rate 86 /min
Which of the following is the most appropriate additional drug?
A. Diliazem
B. Nifedipine
C. Amlodipine
D. Metoprolol
12- 55 year old woman with DM HTN CKD with eGFR 50/ml/min. What is the goal BP to prevent cardiovascular
disease?
A- <155/100
B- <145/90
C- <135/80
✅✅
D- <125/70 Confirmed

13- 28-year-old patient presented to the clinic complaining of perianal discharge. He reported history of on-off
abdominal pain. He reported family history of Crohn’s disease. On examination, three fistula openings at 3, 7 and 9
o’clock. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Colonoscopy
B. MRI
C. Fistulogram
D. US
14- Patient K/C of HTN, diagnosed as TB and started on 1st line Anti-TB medications, he is on Lisinopril and
Amlodipine for HTN, what is the most appropriate adjustment for his medications?
A. Stop Amlodipine
B. Stop Rifampicin
C. Decrease Lisinopril dose
D. Increase Lisinopril dose
Sofyan note: The correct Increase Amlodipine dose
15- Elderly Male On Amlodipine, Beta Blocker, And Lisinopril Presents With Flu-Like Symptoms. Acid-Fast Bacilli
Result Came Positive, And He Was Started On First-Line Anti-TB Regimen. Which Antihypertensive Drug Should Be
Stopped?
A. Amlodipine
B. Beta Blocker
C. Lisinopril
16- Elderly Male On Amlodipine, Beta Blocker, And Lisinopril Presents With Flu-Like Symptoms. Acid-Fast Bacilli
Result Came Positive, And He Was Started On First-Line Anti-TB Regimen. Which Antihypertensive Drug Should Be
Adjusted?
A. Amlodipine
B. Beta Blocker
C. Lisinopril

17- 7 y old boy with fever, cough (Symptoms of pneumonia), PE show localized left lower consolidation. O2 is 94. “He
can drink fluids” (written exactly). What is the most appropriate step?
A. Admit for IV antibiotics and x ray
B. Discharge on oral amoxicillin with clear instructions
C. Discharge on oral macrolide with follow up in clinic
18- 4 y old boy with fever, cough (Symptoms of pneumonia), PE show localized left lower consolidation. O2 is 94. “He
can drink fluids” (written exactly). What is the most appropriate step?
A. Admit for IV antibiotics and x ray
B. Discharge on oral amoxicillin with clear instructions
C. Discharge on oral macrolide with follow up in clinic
19- 28 Pregnant in 18 week She came for anomaly scan as routine and they found single umbilical artery" with no
congenital anomaly " what to do? Lanomaly“
A. genetic counselling
B. ECHO
C. Routine ANC
D. Termination of pregnancy
Q: A 18 weeks gestation US shows single umbilical artery.
A- Reassuring, and continue routine ANC
B- Genetic Test
C- Fetal Echocardiography
D- Close monitoring during pregnancy

20- Women with epilepsy is taking lamotrigine. She didn't have seizure attacks since 6 months. She has no personal
history of a baby with NTD (neural tubal defect), but her cousin had a baby with spina bifida. What is the recommended
folic acid supplementation?
A- 5 mg folic acid during pregnancy
B- 5 mg folic acid 3-6 months before pregnancy
C- Give aspirin
D- Folic acid 400 mg with multivitamins
✅
Confirmed 100%D :
1- https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/48638
2- https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/48645
3- https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/48644
mcg ةﺪﺣﻮﻟا نﻮﻜﺗ ﻦﻜﻤﻣ
21- 31-year-old diabetic woman in active labor. Cardiotocography shows abnormal fetal heart tracing. What is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Stop oxytocin
B. Face mask Oxygen
C. Inject tocolytic drug
D. Change the maternal position
22- Women underwent pelvic smear, it showed Atypical Glandular Cells (AGC). What is the most appropriate
management?
A. HPV
B. Colposcopy
23- Primigravida in labor was given oxytocin then ctg showed recurrent late deceleration and reduced variability. Which
of the following is the management
A. CS
B. change maternal position
C. oxygenation
D. Stop oxytocin
24- 2 month old baby a product of 29 weeks (meaning he is premature) had been in the NICU and put off oxygen came to
his vaccination appointment. He is healthy with a completely normal examination, his mother is worried about him
acquiring bronchitis, what can you do for prevention?
A. Reassure
B. Palivizumab
C. Abx
D. Cough Is A Route Of Transmission
A/D???
Q: 2 month old, hx of preterm at 28 weeks who was in NICU off oxygen. Mother worried how to prevent bronchitis?

A- start abx prophylaxis
B- monthly Palivizumab ??
C
D- reassure ??
25- A 32 years old G3 presented with PROM At 33 for 4 hours , no uterine contraction , vitally stable. She was given IV
antibiotics and admitted under observation. There Was No Abdominal Pain Or Fever (Written In The Question Like
This) Which of the following neonatal complication will be reduced after IV antibiotic?
A. Sepsis
B. Retinopathy
C. Intracranial hemorrhage
D. Respiratory distress syndrome
26- pregnant at 1st visit, height and weight was provided. And Said “She Has Positive Family History For Type 2
Diabetes” and ask at what bmi you Would do screening for diabetes mellitus?
A-25
B-30
C-35
D-40
27- pregnant at 1st visit, height and weight was provided. Then Said “She Has No Risk Factors” (Literally Stated In The
Stem) and ask at what bmi you Would do screening for diabetes mellitus?
A-25
B-30
C-35
D-40
28- pregnant at 1st vist, hieght and weight was provided and ask at what bmi you Would do screening for diabetes
mellietus? (General Question , Didn’t Mention “Family History” And Didn’t Mention “No Risk Factors”)
A-25
B-30
C-35
D-40

29- 43 years old man presented to the ER complaining of Lower limb weakness and urine incontinence and difficulty
walking since 3 days, T10 sensory level no history of previous infection mentioned. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Compression of Spinal cord
B- Guillain barre syndrome
C- Transverse myelitis
D- Spina cauda symptom
30- A patient with Burkit Lymphoma (DLBCL In Another Recall) is receiving B-CHOP chemotherapy. Laboratory
results show hyperkalemia (6) and hypocalcemia. (Unable to urinate) What is the most appropriate management (in
addition to hydration)? Uric Acid Not Mentioned
A. Lasix
B. Thiazide
C. Rasburicase
Highly suggestive of acute Tumor Lysis Syndrome with acute kidney injury
According to UpToDate and oncology guidelines:
Rasburicase is preferred over allopurinol in established or high-risk TLS, especially with AKI.
Details: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/42845
31- A patient with Burkit Lymphoma (DLBCL In Another Recall) is receiving B-CHOP chemotherapy. Laboratory
results show hyperkalemia (6) and hypocalcemia. What is the most appropriate management (in addition to hydration)?
Stem Is Same (In Adition To Hydration) BUT They Removed “Unable To Urinate” , Uric Acid Still Not Mentioned
A. Lasix
B. Thiazide
C. Rasburicase
Q: A patient With Burkit/DLBCL Lymphoma is receiving B-CHOP chemotherapy. Laboratory results show
hyperkalemia (6) and hypocalcemia & Hyper-Phosphatemia. (unable to urinate) What is the most appropriate
management In Addition To Hydration? (No Mention Of “Unable To Urinate”) (Uric Acid Is Not Mentioned) Uric Acid
Not Mentioned
A. Lasix
B. Thiazide
C. Rasburicase
Q: 50 yo male newly diagnosed with BULKY diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), came to ER c/o N& V, decreased
urine output for 24 h after first cycle of chemotherapy (R CHOP) K 6 P04-3 Ca 1.2 UA 570 What is the drug that help in
PREVENT such presentation?
A. Thiazide
B. Allopurinol
C. Rasburicase
D. Prednisone

Q: 50 yo male newly diagnosed with BULKY diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), came to ER c/o N& V, decreased
urine output for 24 h after first cycle of chemotherapy (R CHOP) K 6 P04-3 Ca 1.2 UA 570 What is the drug that help in
PREVENT such presentation?
A. Thiazide
B. Allopurinol
C.
D. Prednisone
No Rasburicase
32- A 58 year presents with progressive dyspnea dyspn and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Echo done: hypokinesia of
anterior wall and left ventricle ejection fraction 30%. Which of the following is the next best investigation:
A- Myocardial perfusion
B- CT angio
C- Coronary angio
D- Chest x-ray
33- Case for new born I forgot what he have but the ph low and hypokalemia? Urine pH 6.5
A- Proximal RTA
B- Medial RTA
C- Distal RTA
D- Fanconi syndrome
34- Female patient with Lt hearing loss and tinnitus, autophony with preserved stapedial reflex, on examination normal
tympanic membrane, diagnosis.
A. Otosclerosis
B. Patulous eustachian tube
C. Superior semicircular canal dehiscence
B/C???
35- A 50 year old male patient presented with recurrent chest tightness radiating to the shoulder, relieved after 4 minutes
with rest. There is a family history of sudden death (his brother died suddenly at the age of 46). ECG shows left bundle
branch block What is the most appropriate to assess the coronary arteries?
A- Myocardial perfusion
B- CT angio
C- exercise ECG
D- calcuim CT
36- A 60-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension presented to the Emergency Department with 3-hour continuous
retrosternal heaviness associated with profuse sweating. Physical examination reveals tachycardia and an S4 gallop on
heart auscultation. The patient is commenced on aspirin, clopidogrel, metoprolol, and nitroglycerin infusion (see
reports). Electrocardiogram: Sinus tachycardia with left bundle branch block. Previous ECG was normal. Cardiac
enzymes: Pending. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Start lidocaine infusion

B. Perform exercise ECG testing
C. Administer thrombolytic therapy
D. Wait for the results of cardiac enzymes
37- Regarding febrile convulsions in children, which of the following statements is correct?
A. There is 2% chance to develop epilepsy ؟؟
B. Anti epileptic medication daily will reduce the risk
C. Antipyretic during fever will reduce the risk of future epilepsy
D. The child will have intellectual disability
38- Regarding febrile convulsions in children, which of the following statements is correct?
A- There is a 2% chance to develop epilepsy
B- If it is a complex febrile seizure, it is more likely to progress to epilepsy
C- If parents had febrile seizures, it will increase the chance to progress to epilepsy
D- Using antipyretics will decrease the chance of febrile convulsions
39- Female on warfarin present with bloody stool, she is pale, hypotensive and has cool extremities. Her lab (Hb is 6,
PTT and PT prolonged, BP is 90/65) What is the the appropriate step in fluid management?
A- RL
B- Prothrombin protein factor (PCC)
C- Normal saline
D- Packed RBC
40- A 65-Year-Old Female Patient Known Case Of CHD Due To Cardiomyopathy Came For Routine Follow-Up And Is
Asymptomatic. BP 110/85 MmHg, HR 145 Irregular. ECG Showed Atrial Fibrillation (AF). What Is The Best Next Step
In Management?
A. Verapamil
B. Digoxin
C. Bisoprolol
D. Electrical Cardioversion
41- In a patient with heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy presenting with fast atrial fibrillation, which of the
following drugs is the most appropriate to control the heart rate?
A. Digoxin
B. Diltiazem
C. Ivabradine
D. Propranolol
42- Elderly Patient Presents With Acute Heart Failure And Has Atrial Fibrillation On ECG. What Is The Best Next
Step?
A. Digoxin
B. Adenosine
C. Beta Blocker

D. Procainamide
43- Patient with acute kidney injury, how to know if the cause is cholesterol emboli?
A- red cell cast
B- epithelial cast
C- Hyaline cast
D- Eosinophiluria
44- A 55-year-old man with acute coronary syndrome who recently underwent cardiac catheterization is evaluated
because of acute kidney injury. Which of the following is most suggestive of cholesterol emboli as a cause of acute renal
failure?
A. White blood cell casts
B. Red cell casts
C. Granular casts
D. Eosinophiluria
45- An orthopedic surgeon completed a fellowship in spinal surgery and finished the program on time. He is now
requesting clinical privileges to perform Complex spinal surgeries in the hospital. What should you ( Do as Certificant
Provider do ) Smt like that?
A. Grant privileges based on his years of experience
B. Approve privileges based on completion of the Cirtificat Solely
C. Do not grant privileges until he completes at least 2 years of Site clinical practice
D. assess competency of his performance Before certification
Q: Fellow neurosurgeon came to fellowship and finished on time now he asks to preform
spinal surgeries in that hospital what will u tell him?
A- He can because he was good preforming
B- He can because he is educated
C- He cannot until at least 2 y post clinical
D- He can if u reassure he had good performance
46- Patient with severe mitral valve STENOSIS due to RF and a fib, what is used for secondary stroke prevention?
A.aspirin
B. warfarin
C. apxipan
47- Patient with severe mitral valve REGURGITATION due to RF and a fib, what is used for secondary stroke
prevention?
A. aspirin
B. warfarin ؟
✅✅
C. apxipan
The general approach to medication selection for rate control in AF is as follows:
-AF only=First line is BB

-AF and claudication= CCB(diltiazem)
-AF and HF=Digoxin
-AF and severe mitral regurgitation=Apixaban or any DOACS
-AF and severe mitral stenosis=warfarin
48- Newborn of diabetic mother with jittery movements. Asked About Management:
A. IM glucagon if after 72 hours we think hypocalcemia
B. oral breast feeding no benefit
C. waiting 2 hours ( not sure) no benefit
D. IV dextrose
Infant of diabetic mother + jittery
= Symptomatic hypoglycemia = IV dextrose immediately
We should check Blood Sugar
mother + jittery movements
Neonatal hypoglycemia:ﻮھ ةﺮﺷﺎﺒﻣ ﮫﯿﻓ ﺮﻜﻔﺗ ءﻲﺷ لوأ
؟ ﺶﯿﻟ
⬇ﻞﻤﺤﻟا ءﺎﻨﺛأ ﻊﻔﺗﺮﻣ ﺎھﺪﻨﻋ ﺮﻜﺴﻟا = يﺮﻜﺳ ﺎھﺪﻨﻋ مﻷا
⬇ﻦﯿﻨﺠﻠﻟ ﺔﻤﯿﺸﻤﻟا ﺮﺒﻌﯾ ﺮﻜﺴﻟا
⬇(hyperinsulinemia) ةﺮﺜﻜﺑ ﻦﯿﻟﻮﺴﻧإ زﺮﻔﯾ ﻦﯿﻨﺠﻟا سﺎﯾﺮﻜﻨﺑ
ةﺄﺠﻓ مﻷا ﺮﻜﺳ ﻊﻄﻘﻨﯾ ةدﻻﻮﻟا ﺪﻌﺑ
⬇ﻲﻟﺎﻋ لاز ﺎﻣ ﻞﻔﻄﻟا ﺪﻨﻋ ﻦﯿﻟﻮﺴﻧﻹا ﻦﻜﻟ
ﻊﯾﺮﺳ ﺮﻜﺳ طﻮﺒھ ﻞﺼﺤﯾ
؟ jitteriness لا ﺔﻗﻼﻋ شو
:ﻞﻤﺸﺗ ةدﻻﻮﻟا ﻲﺜﯾﺪﺣ ﺪﻨﻋ ﺮﻜﺴﻟا طﻮﺒھ ضاﺮﻋأ
Jitteriness ، tremors ، lethargy ، poor feeding ، seizures
ﺲﻜﻌﻟا ﺖﺒﺜﯾ نأ ﻰﻟإ hypoglycemia هﺮﺒﺘﻋا = jitteriness هﺪﻨﻋ newborn يأو
(jitteriness ﻞﺜﻣ) Symptomatic ﻞﻔﻄﻟا نﺎﻛ اذإ ﻢﮭﻤﻟا
ﻂﻘﻓ ﺐﻗاﺮﺗ ﻻو ﺔﻋﺎﺿﺮﻟﺎﺑ ﻲﻔﺘﻜﺗ ﻻ ﺮﻈﺘﻨﺗ ﻻ
IV dextrose ✅ ﮫﯿﻄﻌﻧ لﻮط ﻰﻠﻋ

Bolus: D10W 2 mL/kg
continuous infusion ﻢﺛ
Oral breastfeeding
:ﻞﻔﻄﻟا نﺎﻛ اذإ ﻂﻘﻓ مﺪﺨﺘﺴُﺗ
Asymptomatic or mild hypoglycemia
.ضاﺮﻋأ هﺪﻨﻋ ﻞﻔﻄﻟا ﺎﻨھ ﻦﻜﻟ
Waiting 2 hours
ﺮﯿﻄﺧ اﺬھ
:ﺐﺒﺴﺗ ﻦﻜﻤﻣ hypoglycemia نﻷ
Brain injury , Seizures , Permanent neurologic damage
49- An elderly patient receiving IV heparin develops deep vein thrombosis 6 days post-operatively. Platelet count is 75
×109/L. What is the best next step in management?
A. Start warfarin
B. Start enoxaparin
C. Transfuse platelets
D. Start argatroban
Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia (HIT type II)
- Thrombocytopenia + thrombosis 5–10 days after heparin = Stop heparin + Start argatroban✅
HIT is an immune-mediated reaction :
- Antibodies form against heparin–PF4 complex
- Causes platelet activation
- Leads to thrombosis (paradoxically) despite low platelets.
This is a prothrombotic state, not a bleeding problem.
Immediately stop all heparin and Start a non-heparin anticoagulant D. Start argatroban
Argatroban is:
- A direct thrombin inhibitor
- First-line treatment for HIT
UpToDate
- American Society of Hematology (ASH) 2018 HIT Guidelines
Recommend:
- Immediate discontinuation of all heparin
- Start a non-heparin anticoagulant
Recommended agents:
- Argatroban✅
- Bivalirudin
- Fondaparinux
- DOACs (in selected cases)
Do NOT start warfarin until platelets recover (>150 ×10⁹/L)

Q: A male underwent hip operation. 6 days post surgery he developed lower limb pain and DVT was confirmed. He was
on a list of medications including IV Heparin. Labs showed low platelet count. What is the appropriate management?
A. Warfarin
B. Aspirin
C. Enoxaparin
D. Argatroban
50- A 50-year-old man presents for a routine follow-up. He has no history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or
hypertension. His physical examination is unremarkable. Laboratory investigations reveal: LDL cholesterol: within
normal range HDL cholesterol: borderline low Triglycerides: significantly elevated (300) What is the most appropriate
next step in management?
A. Statin
B. Omega-3 fatty acids
C. Niacin
D. Fibrate
51- A 50-year-old man presents for a routine follow-up. He has no history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or
hypertension. His physical examination is unremarkable. Laboratory investigations reveal: LDL cholesterol: within
normal range HDL cholesterol: borderline low Triglycerides: significantly elevated (300) What is the most appropriate
next step in management? (He Was On Maximum Dose Statin)
A. Statin
B. Omega-3 fatty acids
C. Niacin
D. Fibrate
Q: 50-year-old man presents for a routine follow-up.He has no history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or
hypertension. His physical examination is unremarkable. Laboratory investigations reveal: cholesterol: within normal
range Triglycerides: significantly elevated (2.8) normal (2.2) What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A- increase Statin dose
B- Omega-3 fatty acids
C- Niacin
D- Evolocumab
52- concerning and warrants further evaluation for possible malignancy. Which of the following types of nipple
discharge is most concerning?
A. Spontaneous and bilateral red
B. Spontaneous bilateral milky
C. Induced unilateral green
D. Spontaneous unilateral, from a single duct, and clear

53- child was riding a bicycle, and then he sustained a handlebar injury, he presented to the ER with abdominal pain
and tenderness And Nausea & Vomiting FAST Was Done And It Was Inconclusive. What’s Most Likely Injured
Abdominal Organ?
A. Spleen.
B. Liver.
C. Pancreas. Soft tissue
D. Urinary bladder
✅
Answer: C. Pancreas
Handlebar injury (direct epigastric blow) causes pancreatic injury, especially in children.
FAST is often inconclusive because pancreatic injuries are retroperitoneal and may not produce significant free intraperitoneal
fluid early.
UpToDate: Blunt abdominal trauma in children: Bicycle handlebar injuries are classically associated with pancreatic trauma, often with minimal early findings and
inconclusive FAST because the pancreas is retroperitoneal.
American College of Surgeons: ATLS (Advanced Trauma Life Support): Pancreatic injuries may not be detected on FAST and require CT abdomen with contrast if suspected.
Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics: Notes that epigastric handlebar impact in children commonly results in pancreatic injury.
54- 36-week pregnant woman, G4P3, presents with a fetus in breech presentation. What is the best time to perform an
external cephalic version (ECV)?
A. 36 weeks
B. 37 weeks
C. 38 weeks
D. At time of delivery
Q: gravida 36 weeks came vaginal bleeding. retained and treatment given but bleeding didnt stop and baby is breech in
posotion at what time you will perform ECV? Vitals was not there nor any Lab findings.
A. now
B. 37 weeks
C. 39 weeks
D. 40 weeks
55- 21-year-old primigravida is currently at 20 weeks gestation. Her past medical history is significant for mitral stenosis
secondary to rheumatic heart disease as a child. What physiologic change places her at risk for the development of heart
failure during pregnancy?
A. Increase in red cell mass
B. Increase in stroke volume
C. Increase in minute ventilation
D. Increase in renal plasma flow
56- Old female presented with ascites, and pleural effusion. On US, there is adnexal mass. What is the diagnosis?
A. Ovarian cancer
B. Cervical cancer
C. Endometrial cancer
D. Uterine cancer

57- A diabetic patient presents with a NON-HEALING foot ulcer. The patient complains of numbness. On exam, The
ulcer shows central erythema. (no mention of "with signs of healing", no mention of pulse). He's unable to perceive
touch and sensation. What is the most critical test to perform to reach the diagnosis?
A. ABI
B. Monofilament test
C. Assessment of pressure points
58-patients with hx of heart disease present with SOB and pink frothy spetum ?
A. High CO
B. High SVR
C. low PCWP
D. low something
59-A 12-year-old medically free was fine and suddenly had left sided lower abdominal pain. Examination confirms a
slightly elevated, tender left testis with redness and edema of the scrotum. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A.Testicular torsion
Q:
60-A 12-year-old presents with leO sided lower abdominal pain. Examination confirms a slightly elevated, tender le. tests
with redness and edema of the scrotum. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Testicular torsion
B. Epididymo-orchitis
C. Incarcerated inguinal hernia
D. Torsion of a testicular appendage
Q: Sudden hemiscrotal pain with swelling and tenderness, Cremasteric reflex Absent No transillumination (Didn’t
mention position “high riding”)
A- testicular torsion
B- epididymo-orchitis
C- hydrocele
61-Elderly women with previous laparotomy for sigmoidectomy after complicated diverticulitis, with incisional hernia
symptomatic painful What is the best next step?

A- Reassure
B- Open repair without mesh
C- Laparoscopic repair
D- Laparoscopic repair with mesh reinforcement
62- Transient Tachypnea of the Newborn TTN pedia patient he was started on O2 and but still has mild respiratory
distress. O2 sat 96%. How to feed.. RR is 65 ?
A. NGT
B. Oral express breast milk
C. TPN
D. IV fluids and avoid oral feeding
63-An elderly patient presents with exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, and signs of heart failure. Echocardiography shows
concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with a normal ejection fraction (60%). What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Restrictive cardiomyopathy
B- Constrictive pericarditis
C- Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF)
64- A 30-year-old woman with a diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus who was maintained on mycophenolate
mofetil 1 gm/day, hydroxychloroquine 200 mg/day, and prednisone 5 mg/day for the last 1 year. She has had inactive
disease for more than 6 months. She is planning to get pregnant (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate action at this time?
A. Discontinue prednisone and start cyclosporine
B. Discontinue hydroxychloroquine and start quinacrine
C. Discontinue mycophenolate mofetil and start azathioprine
D. Discontinue mycophenolate mofetil and start methotrexate
65- A 20-year-old woman at 6 weeks gestation is receiving methotrexate treatment for an ectopic pregnancy. The first
dose of methotrexate 50 mg/m² IM was administered one week ago. The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels on
days 1, 4, and 7 were as follows: Day 1: 1000 mIU/mL Day 4: 1200 mIU/mL Day 7: 1100 mIU/mL Which of the following
is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Repeat beta-hCG in 1 week
B. Perform immediate surgical intervention
C. Admit for multiple methotrexate regimen
D. Administer a second dose of methotrexate
66- A 3-year-old his mother is concerned that he does not interact or play with other children and prefers to play alone.
The boy can speak [3- To 4 word Phrases (Literally Written Like This) ], jump, walk on his toes, run draw a rough
circle, can’t draw figures,pour water into a cup, and follow complex commands. What is the most likely assessment of
his development?
A- Gross motor delay
B- Psychosocial disorder
C- Normal development
D- Fine motor delay

67- A 9-year-old boy who has nighttime enuresis 3 times a week and has never been dry . His urine CX and analysis are
normal, and his PE is unremarkable. What should he do next?
A- MRI Lumbar
B- Referral to urology
C- Behavioural changes
D- Reassure
68- A 12-year-old boy is brought by his mother because she is concerned he might have contracted chickenpox after
close contact with a child with chickenpox 2 days ago. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Acyclovir
B. IVIG
C. Chickenpox vaccine
D. Observe for a few days
Q: A 5 year old boy known case of leukemia, on chemotherapy and steroids for 6 weeks, presented to the clinic with his parents as
he had contact with a child who has chickenpox, What to do?
A. Varicella-zoster immunoglobulin
B. Admit him and administer Acyclovir.
C. Chickenpox vaccine.
D. Stop chemotherapy
69- A Woman Presents With A Complaint Of Decreased Fetal Movement At 24 weeks of gestation. Ultrasound: Fetal
Demise. How would you manage?
A. Oxytocin
B. Misoprostol
C. Mifepristone
D. Dinoprostone
Q: Woman Presents With A Complaint Of Decreased Fetal Movement At 24 weeks of gestation. Ultrasound: No Fetal
Heart Beat. How would you manage?
A. Oxytocin
B. Misoprostol
C. Mifepristone
D. Dinoprostone
70- A Female (33–35 Weeks Gestation) Presented With Rupture Of Membranes (ROM) for more than 24 hours. She
Was Asked About Which Antibiotics Should Be Used To Prevent Post- Delivery Pelvic Infections.
A. Vancomycin ؟
B. Ceftriaxone
C. Clindamycin And Gentamicin ؟؟
D. Azithromycin And Metronidazole
Answer: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/48522
Q: A 37-Weeks Gestational Age Patient Came To The Labor Room With PROM For 24 Hours. How To Prevent
Postpartum Pelvic Infection? (C-Section Not Mentioned)

A. Vancomycin
B. Clindamycin
C. Clindamycin Plus Gentamicin
D. Amoxicillin Plus Metronidazole
Q: A Female (33–35 Weeks Gestation) Presented With Rupture Of Membranes (ROM) for more than 24 hours. She Was
Asked About Which Antibiotics Should Be Used To TREAT Post- Delivery Pelvic Infections. (C-Section Not Mentioned)
A) Vancomycin
B) Ceftriaxone
C) Clindamycin And Gentamicin
D) Azithromycin And Metronidazole
71-A Female (33–35 Weeks Gestation) Presented With Rupture Of Membranes (ROM) for more than 6 hours. She Is
Planned For C-Section. She Was Asked About Which Antibiotics Should Be Used To Prevent Post- Delivery Pelvic
Infections.
A. Vancomycin
B. Clindamycin
C. Clindamycin And Gentamicin
D. Azithromycin And Metronidazole
Q: Woman had vaginal delivery at term with prolonged rupture of membranes (24 hours).
Question asked about prevention. Options included:
A. Vancomycin
B. Clindamycin + gentamicin
72- 59-year-old postmenopausal woman with a history of breast cancer on tamoxifen Presents with 2 months of
abnormal vaginal bleeding. An endometrial biopsy was attempted but inadequate. What is the most appropriate in
management?
A. Stop tamoxifen
B. Hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy
C. Hysterectomy
D. TVUS
73-Pregnant came with BP 150/90, lower limb edema. Asking about next step in management?
A. Reassurance as edema normal in pregnancy
B. Admit for further evaluation and rule out preeclampsia
74-A 30 years old women diabetic for 15 years presented in antenatal clinic for preconception. Her HbA1c is 8.2. What
to do?
A. Low dose aspirin for pregnancy complications prevention
B. Folic acid 4mg pre pregnancy
C. Glycemic control to reach HbA1c <6.5

75-A 8 months old baby, exclusively breastfeeding came with reduction in weight at birth he was 50th percentile now
after month she is at 10th percentile, his height and head circumference still in 50th percentile.
A. Metabolic disorder
B. Increase calorie intake
C. Reassure
Q: 8 month old baby exclusively breastfeeding. Weight was 50th percentile then it became 10th percentile. Her parent is
worried, What advice to give the parent to prevent further decline in weight?
A- Improve caloric intake.
B- Weight fluctuation is normal at this age.
C- metabolic screening .
D- Reassurance
76-A 4 months old baby, exclusively breastfeeding came with reduction in weight at birth he was 50th percentile now
after month she is at 10th percentile, his height and head circumference still in 50th percentile. Her parent is worried,
What advice to give the parent to prevent further decline in weight?
A. Metabolic disorder
B. Increase calorie intake
C. Reassure
B but I’m stilling not sure
77-A pregnant woman with diabetes mellitus and obesity is being evaluated for obstetric risk Which of the following is
the most appropriate maneuver to help prevent shoulder dystocia during delivery?
A. Rubin maneuver
B. Suprapubic pressure
C. Gaskin maneuver
D. Zavanelli maneuver
78- history of vomiting and diarrhea. His mother reports decreased oral intake and increasing lethargy over the past 12
hours. On examination, he is drowsy but arousable, and his breath has a fruity (nail polish-like) odor. Vital signs reveal
mild hypotension. Laboratory results show: Random blood sugar (RBS): 8.9 mmol/L Serum sodium: 131 mmol/L,
Bicarbonate: 15 mmol/L. What is the most likely cause of his current condition?
A. Diabetic Ketoacidosis
B. Uncontrolled Hyperglycemia
C. Hyponatremia
D. Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State
79- Baby after delivery went into respiratory distress, abnormal breathing pattern, tachypnea, saturation 78% , there
were some meconium stains around the baby. What's next step?
A. Oxygen
B. Observation
C. Intubation and mechanical ventilation if needed
D. ABGs

Answer: C
80- Teenage girl sits on her ipad a lot and keeps comparing herself with others, she has low self esteem and anxiety,
what’s the most she could benefit from?
A. Antidepressant
B. Force her to leave social media
C. Limit social media time
D. Cognitive behavioral therapy
81- Pt female came for birth control she had previous DVT, what contraception u give?
A- Patch
B- IUD
C- OCP
82- Old female + Weight loss & Stool +ve for occult blood + Constipation
A. Sigmoidoscopy
B. Colonoscopy
83- A patient underwent a dental procedure and subsequently develops jaundice and chills. Ultrasound reveals a 6 cm
hypoechoic lesion in the liver. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Oral antibiotics
B. Percutaneous drainage
84-24-week pregnant woman presents with exertional dyspnea. She is otherwise healthy, and systemic examination is
unremarkable. Ultrasound shows monochorionic twin pregnancy with evidence of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome
(TTTS). What is the most appropriate next step in Management?
A. Termination of pregnancy
B. Expectant management with observation only
C. Laser photocoagulation of placental vascular anastomoses
D. Cesarean section
Q: 22-week pregnant woman presents with exertional dyspnea. She is otherwise healthy, and systemic examination is
unremarkable. Ultrasound shows monochorionic twin pregnancy with evidence of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome
(TTTS). What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A- Termination of pregnancy
B- Expectant management with observation only
C- Laser photocoagulation of placental vascular anastomoses
D- Cesarean section
85- 12-week pregnant woman presents with exertional dyspnea. She is otherwise healthy, and systemic examination is
unremarkable. Ultrasound shows monochorionic twin pregnancy with evidence of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome
(TTTS). What is the most appropriate next step in Management?
A. Termination of pregnancy
B. Expectant management with observation only
C. Laser photocoagulation of placental vascular anastomoses

D. Cesarean section
Details here: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/42964
86-A Patient presented with weight loss, diarrhea that sometimes with blood. Colonoscopy: Linear ulcer, stricture,
segmental involvement normal and inflamed mucosa What is the diagnosis?
A. Crohn’s
B. Ulcerative colitis
C. Irritable bowel syndrome
87- A patient sustained a high-velocity trauma and is hypotensive despite receiving IV fluids. Xray shows an openbook
pelvic fracture. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Pelvic binder
B. External fixation
C. Surgery
D. Internal fixation
88- A 60 (70) years old Male was found to have inguinal hernia incidentally on physical examination. The hernia is
reducible and causes no pain but slight discomfort. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Surgical repair
B. Observation and regular follow up
C. Increase physical activity
89- 27 YO female presented to OPD with painful swelling in tip of her right thumb 2 days ago, she work as hairdresser
and trimming hangnail. Examination show tense tender swelling in pulp of “Nail FOLD Is Intact” which of the following
is most likely diagnosis?
A. Felon
B. Paronychia
C. Onychomycosis

D. Cellulitis
Q: Hairdresser came to the emergency department with a swollen bulb of the thumb finger after stick injury with a tool.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Felon
B. Paronychia
C. Onychomycosis
D. Cellulitis
90. A Patient with Fatigue, Recurrent ureteric stones and bone pain Ca: 3.50 mmol Parathyroid adenoma: 2cm
parathyroid adenoma What's Most Appropriate NEXT Step In Management?
A. Bisphosphonate ؟؟
B. Calcium meteics
C. Increase calcium diet
D. Parathyroidectomy ??
91- (Long scenario) after IV fluid how to confirm that the pt is well resuscitated?
A. CVP 8
B. MAP 45
C. urine output 0.1 ml/kg/h
D. lactate = 2
If burn case = lactate -2
If Sepsis = CVP 8 “Central Venous Pressure = 8 mmHg”

✅
If burn case D. Lactate = 2
● Lactate reflects tissue perfusion and oxygen delivery.
● Normal or clearing lactate (<2 mmol/L) indicates successful resuscitation.
✔ Best marker among choices.

Adequate resuscitation targets:
● MAP ≥ 65 mmHg
● Urine output ≥ 0.5 ml/kg/hr
● Improving mental status
● Lactate normalization or clearance (most reliable marker of perfusion)
A. CVP = 8
● CVP is not reliable alone to assess adequate resuscitation.
● Static preload measures are poor indicators of perfusion. Not the best confirmation.
C. Urine output = 0.1 ml/kg/hr
● Adequate urine output ≥ 0.5 ml/kg/hr in adults. Severe oliguria.
After IV fluid resuscitation, adequate tissue perfusion , not just blood pressure , confirms successful resuscitation.
If choices include CVP vs lactate, always pick lactate = it measures perfusion, not just pressure.
📚 References:
● American Burn Association Guidelines.
● Advanced Trauma Life Support.
● Surviving Sepsis Campaign.
92- A 7 month old pediatric came with convergence and esotropia.and during exam absent corneal light reflex The
parents are concerned what should you do?
A. Reassure
B. Refer to ophthalmology
93- 2-Month-Old Infant Presents To Vaccination Clinic. What Are The Recommended Vaccines According To National
Program?
A. IPV, HBV, DTP, HIB, MMR
B. IPV, HBV, DTP, HAV, PCV
C. IPV, HBV, DTP, HIB, PCV, Rota
D. IPV, HBV, DTP, HIB
94- A 1-year-old infant presents to the Vaccination Clinic with a normal exam and growth. What are the recommended
vaccines according to the national program?
A. OPV. MMR, HAV, PCV
B. Varicella, PCV, HIB
C. OPV, MMR, varicella, PCV
D. OPV, MMR, varicella
Q: A 1-year-old infant presents to Vaccina9on Clinic with normal exam and growth
What are the recommended vaccines according according to Saudi national program?
A. OPV. MMR, HAV, PCV

B. Varicella, PCV,HIB
C. OPV,MMR,MCV4, PCV
D. OPV,MMR, varicella, DTP
Answer: C
Q:
95- 6-Year-Old Pre-School Screening Vaccines (Saudi Program)
A. MMR, DTP, OPV
B. MMR, HBV, DTP, HAV
C. MMR, Varicella, DTP, OPV
D. MMR, Varicella, OPV, PCV
96- Young boy fell and hit his head; he had a seizure for one minute which resolved completely. On examination he is
conscious, oriented, and there is no neurological deficit. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Urgent non-contrast computed tomography (CT)
B. Admission and observe for 24 hours
C. Discharge
Q: A 10-year-old boy fell from a tree and hit his head. He had a brief loss of consciousness followed by a seizure for one
minute
which resolved completely. Upon arrival to the ER, he is in a post-ictal state but arousable. he is conscious, oriented,
and Pupils are equal and reactive. No focal neurological deficit.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Urgent non-contrast computed tomography (CT)
B. Admit for observation 24 hours
C. Observe in the ER for 2 hours
D. Discharge home on instructions
Q: Girl was playing in the garden and fall down then she LOC and start do
vomit then become stable and present to ER
What is the most appropriate next step?
A- Neuro consultation
B- Observation for 24h
C- Discharge

Answer: A
97-Year Old Child Presents With 2 Months History Of Epigastric Pain That Wakes Him Up At Night, Mother
Mentioned A History Of PUD, What Is The Confirmatory Test?
A. CBC
B. Abdominal US
C. Upper GI Endoscopy With Biopsy
D. H. Pylori Stool Antigen Only
98- A 3-Month-Old Infant With Noisy Breath Since Birth Changes With Positioning, Disappears In Prone Position And
Becomes More Obvious With Supine Position. Examination And Growth Are Normal. What Counseling Should Be
Given?
A. Will Worsen With Time
B. Needs Surgical Correction
C. Normal Developmental Sounds
D. Will Improve By First Birthday
99-
100-Fishy Smell Vaginal Discharge With Clue Cells And Positive Whiff Test — Diagnosis?
A. Candida
B. Trichomonas
C. Bacterial Vaginosis
101- 2-Day-Old Infant, 5.2 Kg At Birth, Hypoglycemia, Mother Had Gestational Diabetes Treated With Insulin. Cause
Of Hypoglycemia?
A. Organic Acidemia
B. Hyperinsulinemia
C. Adrenal Insufficiency
D. Glucagon Deficiency
102- 28-Week Pregnant Woman With Cough And Dyspnea, Bilateral Rhonchi, Allergy History — Most Appropriate
Initial Test?
A. Spirometry
B. Chest X-Ray
C. ABG
D. Hemoglobin Estimation
103-Elderly patient in 70s Hx of HTN, brought by his son. He stated to forget recent events but remembers old events.
He forgets names. He misplaced his items and can't find them, social activities withdrawal due to lack of interest. Mini
Mental exam was done and the result was low (i can't remember exactly the number) On MRI: There was cortical
atrophy What medication to start?
A- Antipsychotic
B- Antidepressant

C- Cholinesterase inhibitor
104-After Blood Transfusion For 15 Minutes Patient Becomes Hypotensive With SpO₂ 88% — Diagnosis?
A. Acute Hemolytic Transfusion Reaction
B. Acute Lung Injury
C. Allergic Reaction
105- 50-Year-Old Man With HTN And Previous Hemorrhagic Stroke — Which Vaccine Should Be Given Now?
A. Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccine
B. Hepatitis A Vaccine
C. Influenza Booster
Q: A 50-year-old man presents to the clinic for a routine follow-up visit. He has a history of hypertension that is well
controlled on antihypertensive therapy. He had a hemorrhagic stroke 2 years ago but has fully recovered with no
residual neurological deficits. He received the seasonal influenza vaccine 6 months ago. Which of the following vaccines
should be administered at this visit according to best-practice recommendations?
A. Shingles (Herpes zoster) vaccine
B. Hepatitis A vaccine
C. Give influenza vaccine booster
106- 50-Year-Old Man With COPD — Which Vaccine Should Be Given Now?
A. Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccine
B. Hepatitis A Vaccine
C. Influenza Booster
107-Elderly man DM HTN was admitted to the ward due to acute abdomen, during laparotomy surgical team found
necrotic bowel and wanted to exclude cardiac causes, his ECG showed sinus rhythm, Echo was normal. What should
you do next?
A. Exercise ECG
B. Holter monitor
C. Repeat Echo
D. Missing
108- 6-week-old infant presents with projectile vomiting after feeds, poor weight gain, and dehydration. Ultrasound
shows pyloric thickening. What is the initial management?
A. Barium swallow
B. Change to formula feeding
C. IV fluids and prepare for pyloromyotomy
D. Reassurance

Q: A PEDIA BOY PRESENTED WITH NON BILIOUS PROJECTILE FEEDING ON EXAMINATION EPIGASTRIC
MASS MX?
A-PYLOROTOMY
109- Most common subtype HPV in cervical cancer?
A.11 /12
B.16 /18
C. 32/ 36
D. 44
110- Currently presenting with jaundice, and RUQ tenderness. Her LFT and bilirubin are elevated. What is the most
appropriate diagnostic imaging?
A. MRCP
B. Abdominal US
C. Abdominal CT
111- A 22 years old woman with a history of multiple sexual transmitted diseases presented at the 37th gestational week
for her first antenatal visit. The obstetrician is concerned about this maternal infection, which may cause conjunctivitis
and blindness in the newborn. Which of the following is the most suitable for health promotion and illness prevention?
A. Reassurance
✅✅
B. Azithromycin administration
C. Newborn screening after delivery

D. Refer To Infectious Disease
B/C??
112- When to resume chemotherapy after tumor lysis syndrome?
A. Uric acid <356 Creatinine <141 Ph> 7
B. Uric acid <475.83 Creatinine <141 Ph>7
C. Urinc acid <475.83 Creatinine <229 Ph>7
D. Urinc acid <475.83 Creatinine <141 Ph> 8
113- A 30-year-old woman with a history of infertility for 6 years complains of severe dysmenorrhea unrelieved by
naproxen. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Endometritis
B. Leiomyomata
C. Endometriosis
D. Pelvic congestion
Q: A 28-year-old woman presents with a 6-year history of inability to conceive. She also reports severe dysmenorrhea
that does not respond to NSAIDs. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Endometritis
B. Pelvic inflammatory disease
C. Endometriosis
D. Polycystic ovary syndrome
114- patient came with pneumonia sx productive cough, fever, pain, pic was provided (lobar pneumonia), treatment was
initiated (IV cetriaxone, paracetamol, tramadol), after one day he became stable and improved what drug to stop?
Reduced platelets count (around 70 I think)
A. Paracetamol
B. Tramadol
C. Ceftriaxone
D. Vancomycin
The key new finding is thrombocytopenia (platelets ≈ 70,000) after starting treatment.
which drug commonly causes drug-induced thrombocytopenia?
● Paracetamol = very safe hematologically; thrombocytopenia is extremely rare
● Tramadol = mainly CNS side effects (sedation, nausea, seizures), not platelet drop
● Ceftriaxone = ✅ known cause of immune-mediated thrombocytopenia
● Vancomycin = can cause thrombocytopenia, but it was not given
Mechanism (important exam point)
Cephalosporins (including ceftriaxone) can cause:
- Drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia→ antibodies destroy platelets→ rapid platelet fall after exposure.
Management principle
When platelet count drops significantly after starting an antibiotic:
- Stop the offending drug immediately
- Switch to another appropriate antibiotic if needed.

115- Pregnant lady at 12 weeks Her first pregnancy ended up with spontaneous abortion (they didn’t mention which trimester)
Her 2nd pregnancy was uncomplicated, Her 3rd pregnancy had PPROM at 28 weeks, Presents with no complaints and normal
examination, what is the most appropriate action?
A- Urgent macleod cerclage
B- Abdominal cerclage before pregnancy
C- Follow up in family medicine clinic
D- Follow in high risk clinics and close observation
116- pregnant woman is admitted for labor. After continuous pushing, she is now exhausted. The baby is engaged at +2
station and shows minimal variability with late deceleration The mother exhausted and can't push What is the most
appropriate management?
A. Cesarean section
B. Operative vaginal delivery
C. Reassessing after 1 hour
D. Oxytocin
117-33wk GA, CT type 2 deceleration while she is in labour, +2 station, Severe bleeding And 90/60 hypotensive. What is
the management?
A. Forceps
B. Ventouse
C. CS
118- 9-year-old girl presents to the emergency department with pain between her legs after falling from a bicycle. She
was screaming from pain in between her legs. She is accompanied by her mother. On examination, with the presence of
her mother a bluish hematoma is noted in the left labia. What is the most appropriate management? ( no mention of
LARGE)
A. Topical Ice placement
B. Prophylactic antibiotics
C. Examination Under Anesthesia
D. Surgical Evacuation Of Hematoma
Large WO Expanding = Ice
Expanding (Regardless To Size) ==> Evacuation
119-picture provided and was SVT. What is the treatment?
A. Amiodarone
B. Adenosine if Stable
C. Cardioversion if Unstable
Q: Pediatric came after a fall while playing, currently stable. ECG picture provided and was SVT. What is the treatment
(not sure if it initial or most appropriate) ?
A- Amiodarone
B- Adenosine
C- Cardioversion
D- Beta blocker

ECG shows SVT (Supraventricular Tachycardia).
The keyword is STABLE SVT.
Stable SVT = Adenosine
Unstable SVT = Synchronized cardioversion.
● Amiodarone: Used for refractory arrhythmias or wide-complex tachycardia, not first line.
● Cardioversion: Reserved for unstable patients (hypotension, shock, altered consciousness).
● Beta blocker: Used for prevention or second-line control, not acute termination.
Management of SVT (exam algorithm)
1 ⃣ First step (if stable) Vagal maneuvers (Valsalva, ice to face in children).
If not listed in options → move to next step.
2 ⃣ First-line medication✅ IV Adenosine (rapid bolus).
● Temporarily blocks AV node.
● Diagnostic + therapeutic
● Drug of choice for stable. narrow-complex SVT.
✔✔American Heart Association (AHA) — Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) Guidelines
2020 AHA Guidelines for CPR and ECC
Pediatric tachycardia algorithm states:
● Stable narrow-complex SVT = Vagal maneuvers = IV Adenosine (first-line drug)
● Unstable SVT = Synchronized cardioversion

120- A 6-month-old infant presents with cough, nasal congestion, fever, and difficulty breathing for 2 days (typical
bronchiolitis). On examination, he has tachypnea, respiratory retractions. His oxygen saturation is 88% on room air.
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A- Reassure and discharge home with nasal saline drops
B- Admit for observation, respiratory monitoring, oxygen, and hydration & Suctioning
121- 13-year-old obese boy presents with persistent hypertension documented on multiple visits. Examination reveals
acanthosis nigricans over the neck and axillae. Patient also has [headache sweating and palpitations] What is the next
step to establish diagnosis?
A. Catecholamine
B. Cortisone level and ACTH
C. Renal US
D. Ambulatory BP Monitoring
AboSarah: ✔Most likely diagnosis Pheochromocytoma: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK589700/
A catecholamine-secreting tumor causing episodic or persistent hypertension.
● Obese with acanthosis nigricans (insulin resistance).
The triad is:
- Headache + sweating + palpitations = pheochromocytoma until proven otherwise
Next step to establish diagnosis
✅
Measure catecholamines or metanephrines:
● Plasma free metanephrines (best screening test).
● or 24-hour urinary catecholamines/metanephrines.
If hypertension + episodic adrenergic symptoms appear in a child/adolescent:
- Check catecholamines first = rule out pheochromocytoma.
122- developed to even include the missed cases. Which one is high?
A- Specificity
B- Sensitivity
C- Positive predictive value
D- Negative predictive value
Oxford Handbook of Clinical Medicine
● A sensitive test is chosen when the priority is detecting all possible cases.
When a question says “include missed cases” or “avoid missing disease” = High Sensitivity (well-established across major medical textbooks and guidelines).
High sensitivity tests minimize false negatives and are used when the goal is not to miss cases (screening tests).
If the stem says:
● screening

● detect early
● avoid missing cases
● include missed cases
Always think HIGH SENSITIVITY.
“Developed to even include the missed cases” means: The test aims to detect as many true disease cases as possible, including cases that might otherwise be missed.
This describes high sensitivity.
123- 1 week ago and complaining of mild abdominal pain after the accident. O/E: Vitally stable. Mild abdominal pain
mainly in the right upper quadrant. No other complaints or findings. What is the most appropriate initial step?
A- Do Abdominal ultrasound
✅
B- Refer him to emergency department for further evaluation
C- Do blood work to rule out hemorrhage
If CT with contrast in choices I will chose it
124- 28week pregnant with mild SOB on exertion , exam normal , medically free ?
A- pulmonary function test
B- reassure as dyspnea is normal in pregnancy
125- A pregnant woman at 38 weeks of gestation is diagnosed with intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). Ultrasound
assessment shows an amniotic fluid index (AFI) of 3 cm. *Absent end diastolic flow ( came together in same Q )* Which
of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Urgent cesarean section
B. Observation until normal vaginal delivery
C. Induction of labor
D. Reassurance
126- Pregnant I think GA is 24 weeks, they found out that the pt didn’t receive rubella vaccine , when should the
pregnant receive MMR?
A- at 28 week
B- post partum

C- no need at all
D- give vaccine now
Q: A pregnant woman did not receive the rubella vaccine prior to pregnancy. When is the appropriate time to
administer the
rubella vaccine?
A. Now
B. During the second trimester
C. Postpartum
Answer: C
127- 6-Year-Old Complaining Of Bedwetting. He Has Never Been Dry At Night. His Brother Had The Same Problem
What’s Next Step?
A. Reassure
B. Desmopressin
C. Toilet Training
D. Alarm
128- 27-year-old primigravida presented at 36-weeks of gestation with headache, blurred vision (see lab result). Blood
pressure 160/110 mmHg Heart rate 76 /min Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.8 °C Test Result Normal Values
Protein ++ absent Which of the following is the most appropriate medication for acute treatment of hypertension?
A. Clonidine
B. Methyldopa
C. Hydralazine
D. Sodium nitroprusside
129- A 23-year-old primigravida presented at 32-weeks of gestation with seizures (see lab result). Blood pressure 160/110
mmHg Heart rate 78 /min Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Test Result Normal Values Protein +++ absent
which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Steroids
B. Diuretics
C. Hydralazine
D. Magnesium sulfate

Q: Pregnant pt , with BP 160/100 , headache , then developed seizure
A. oral nifedipine
B. hydralazine
C. bolus of Mg sulfate
130- old woman, admitted at 35 GA with decreased fetal movement, examination showed fundal height corresponds to
29. Fetal weight is below the 10th centile for the gestational age. Amniotic fluid Index is 3. Umbilical artery end diastolic
flow is absent. What’s the most appropriate management?
A. Steroid injection
B. CS
C. IOL
D. Expectant management
131- 10 years old boy presented to the emergency department with fever, headache and sore throat for 2 days, in
examination there were enlarged tonsils with exudate and pharyngeal petechiae. He had enlargement of anterior and
posterior cervical lymph nodes. The rapid strep test was negative. BP: 100/65 T: 39 Others normal What's the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Oral penicillin V
B. Throat culture
C. Reassurance
D. Missing
This child has strong clinical features of streptococcal pharyngitis:
- Fever (39°C) ✅
- Sore throat ✅
- Tonsillar exudates ✅
- Pharyngeal petechiae ✅ (very suggestive of GAS)
- Cervical lymphadenopathy ✅ (anterior ± posterior)
- High clinical suspicion for Group A Streptococcus (GAS).
However:
- Rapid antigen detection test (RADT) is negative
In children and adolescents:
- Negative rapid strep test MUST be confirmed with throat culture.
Because:
- RADT specificity = high
- RADT sensitivity = imperfect = false negatives occur
So we must not miss GAS (risk of rheumatic fever).
Negative Rapid Test = Next Step
Child (<18 yrs)✅Throat culture.
Adult: No culture needed.
✅ Treatment (after confirmation with throat culture)
The treatment for Group A Streptococcal (GAS) pharyngitis is: Oral Penicillin V ✅
First-line treatment is Penicillin V
- Drug of choice
- Duration: 10 days
OR Amoxicillin
- Often preferred in children (better taste, once daily dosing).
If penicillin allergy:
- Cephalexin (non-anaphylactic allergy)
- Azithromycin or

- Clindamycin (true anaphylaxis).
Why we treat GAS pharyngitis
Treatment:
- ↓ symptom duration
- ↓ transmission
- ✅ Prevents acute rheumatic fever (most important exam point).
📚 References
- Infectious Diseases Society of America
- American Academy of Pediatrics
- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
132- A 78-year-old man known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease is complaining
of fatigue and nausea. He denies any change in consciousness, seizures, abdominal pain, vomiting, chest pain, or
shortness of breath. He is on insulin, lisinopril, amlodipine, erythropoietin, and vitamin D. Examination reveals that he
is drowsy but not in distress (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Hidden GB Labs Are: K: 6.2 (Or 6.3) , Na: 141
A. NaHCO3
B. D5 water
C. Diuretics
✅
D. Calcium gluconate
✅
If K ≥ 6 or symptoms/ECG concern = Calcium gluconate FIRST, always.
● Chronic kidney disease (CKD) ✅
● Hyperkalemia → K⁺ = 6.2–6.3 mmol/L
● Symptoms: fatigue + drowsiness → possible potassium effect on cardiac conduction
Hyperkalemia ≥ 6.0 mmol/L or symptomatic = medical emergency.
Stabilize the cardiac membrane to prevent fatal arrhythmias.This is done with:✅Calcium gluconate⬇
● Acts within minutes.
● Protects myocardium.
● Does NOT lower potassium , but prevents arrhythmia.
Hyperkalemia management order (VERY HIGH-YIELD)
1- Protect heart : IV calcium gluconate ✅
2- Shift K⁺ into cells : insulin + glucose, β-agonist, ± bicarbonate
3- Remove potassium : diuretics, binders, dialysis
📚 References:
● Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes — Immediate cardiac stabilization with IV calcium in severe hyperkalemia.
● Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine — First step in significant hyperkalemia is membrane stabilization with calcium.
133- A 78-year-old man known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease is complaining
of fatigue and nausea. He denies any change in consciousness, seizures, abdominal pain, vomiting, chest pain, or
shortness of breath. He is on insulin, lisinopril, amlodipine, erythropoietin, and vitamin D. Examination reveals that he
is drowsy but not in distress (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
Hidden GB Labs Are: K: 6.2 (Or 6.3) , Na: 141
A. NaHCO3
B. D5 water
C. Diuretics ?!
✅
D. Dialysis
In CKD patients, significant hyperkalemia often cannot be corrected effectively by renal excretion.

Definitive treatment = Dialysis.
134- A 4-year-old girl is brought to the clinic because her mother had felt a mass in the abdomen last night when she was
bathing her. She has been otherwise well with no weight loss, fever, or bone pain. Her blood pressure is 130/80 mmH.
Physical examination shows a well-thriving kid with a palpable firm mass in the right flank (see lab results). Color Clear
clear or light yellow, pH 7.0 4.3-8 Specific gravity 1010 1001-1030. Protein Absent. Glucose Absent. Ketones Absent.
Nitrite Absent. Hemoglobin ++. Leukocytes Absent 0-3 per high power field. Erythrocytes 50 0-2 per high power field.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in her diagnostic work-up?
A- Plain abdominal radiography
B- Abdominal computed tomography
C- Abdominal magnetic resonance imaging
D- Plain abdominal radiography and abdominal ultrasonography
135- A patient with interstitial lung disease presents with paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (PND), elevated jugular venous
pressure (JVP), a loud pulmonary component of S2, prominent V waves, and pulsatile hepatomegaly.
What is the most likely cause?
A. Tricuspid regurgitation
B. Aortic regurgitation
C. Mitral regurgitation
D. Pulmonary regurgitation
Q: 55-year-old woman with interstitial lung disease presented with exertional dyspnea and bilateral lower limb edema.
Physical examination revealed an elevated JVP with a prominent v wave, pulsating hepatomegaly, a left parasternal
heave,
and a loud pulmonary component of the second heart sound (P2).
Which of the following is the most expected additional finding on heart auscultation?
A. Mitral regurgitation
B. Aortic regurgitation
C. Tricuspid regurgitation
D. Pulmonary regurgitation
136- A 32-year-old man came to the clinic for follow-up visit. He is diagnosed of ileocolonic Crohn’s disease started on
steroid and pentasa for 3 months. He noticed perineal pain and discharges for 3 weeks duration. His abdominal
symptoms are well controlled with no abdominal pain or diarrhea. Examination was normal apart from 2 perianal
fistula were seen RBC 4 4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male) Hb 11 130-170 g/L (Male) Platelets count 421 150-400 x 109/L WBC 7
4.5-10.5 x 109/L ESR 36 2-10 mm/h (Male) MRI Pelvis: Confirmed the presence of perianal fistulae. Which of the
following is the best next step in management?
A. Methotrexate
B. Azathioprine
C. Budesonide
D. Infliximab
137- A 30-year-old woman with Sjogren's syndrome on hydroxychloroquine is evaluated in the clinic because of fatigue.
Her physical examinations are unremarkable (see lab results). Which of the following renal tubular acidosis type is the
most likely cause of her hypokalemia?
A. Type 1

B. Type 2
C. Type 3
D. Type 4
Q:
138- A 26-year-old woman complains of marked fear whenever dealing with unfamiliar people, as she is afraid of
embarrassment. She was referred to a local psychologist for assessment and management. ﻲﺒﻏ لاﺆﺳ Which of the
following will benefit from cognitive behavioral therapy?
A. Schizophrenia
B. Social phobia
C. Postpartum psychosis
D. Depression with hallucination
139- A 29-year-old man presents to the Emergency Room with a 2-day history of fever and painful skin eruption over
the left side of his chest. His physical examination reveals a skin eruption consisting of maculopapular lesions and
vesicles with some skin crusting over the left side of his chest. His systemic examinations are unremarkable. Which of the
following is the most appropriate action to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Skin biopsy
B. Blood culture
C. Swab from skin lesion for culture
D. No further investigation is required
140- A 35y old man complaining of sore throat, fatigue, body aches, and cough with white sputum. After it's associated
with streaks of blood. Examination of cardio and chest normal. Chest X-Ray : normal. What's the diagnosis?
A- Bronchitis
B- Pulmonary edema
C- Goodpasture syndrome
D- Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia
Q A 36-year-old man, previously healthy, presented to primary healthcare complaining of cough, fatigue, sore throat,
and body
aches. The cough is productive with whitish sputum; on a few occasions, there were some blood streaks. Chest
examination was
within normal limits (see report). Chest X-ray: Normal, without evidence of consolidation.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Bronchitis

B. Pulmonary edema
C. Goodpasture syndrome
D. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia
Answer: A
141- A 34-year-old delivered 5 months ago presents with failure to breastfeed her baby, dizziness and fatigue. Her
obstetrics history revealed that she had a vaginal delivery complicated with retained placenta and severe postpartum
hemorrhage. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Pituitary adenomas
B. Sheehans syndrome
C. Lymphocytic hypophysitis
D. Subarachnoid hemorrhage
142- A 45-year-old woman presented with 9-months history of worsening dysphagia for both solid and liquid. Recently
she had episodes of ill defined central chest discomfort and nocturnal cough. Clinical examination was unremarkable
(see lab results). RBC 5 4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female) Hb 11.8 130-170 g/L. (Male) 120-160 g/L
(Female) Platelets count 300 150-400 x 109/L WBC 7 4.5-10.5 x 109/L ESR 13 2-10 mm/h (Male), 3-15 mm/h (Female)
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Achalasia
B. Esophageal web
C. Pharyngeal pouch
D. Squamous cancer of esophagus
143- There was a patient with a clinical scenario of Alzheimer’s disease prescribed donepezil, but no improvement was
noticed for 6 months. MRI showing cortical atrophy. How should his medications be adjusted?
A. Add sertraline
B. Add memantine
C. Switch donepezil to memantine
D. Switch donepezil to rivastigmine
Q: There was patient with clinical scenario of Alzheimer prescribed donepezil For 6 Months but No Improvement Was
Noticed. Asking how to adjust his meds: (No Mention Of MMSE Drop)
A. Add Setraline
B. Add Memantine
C. Change Donepezil To Memantine
D. Change Donepezil To Rivastigmine
144- A 38-year-old woman is scheduled to undergo a myomectomy due to the presence of a large uterine fibroid. The
surgeon is planning to administer medication that will help reduce the size of the uterine fibroid prior to performing the
procedure. Which of the following is the most appropriate medication to use for this purpose?
A. GnRH injection
B. Combined contraceptive pills
C. Intrauterine contraceptive device
D. Oral continuous progesterone therapy

145- A 24-hour-old neonate with ambiguous genitalia. 17-hydroxyprogesterone was abnormally high (see lab results).
Test Result Normal Values Sodium 128 134-146 mmol/L Potassium 6.8 3.5-5. 1 mmol/L Bicarbonate 16 21-28 mmol/L
Glucose 2.5 2.8-5 mmol/L (Newborn)3.3 -5.5 mmol/L (Child) Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. 21-hydroxylase deficiency
B. 17-hydroxylase deficiency
C. 11-beta hydroxylase deficiency
D. 36-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency
Details: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK279168/
146- A 40-year-old man is admitted with palpitations of 4-hour duration. He had similar attack a month ago but did not
seek medical advice. His initial electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with controlled ventricular rate. He
subsequently converted to sinus rhythm. Which of the following drugs is the most appropriate to maintain sinus
rhythm?
A. Digoxin
B. Bisoprolol
C. Verapamil
D. Amiodarone
MG
147- A 34-year-old woman with a history of recurrent pregnancy loss was seen in the clinic. Which of following is the
best predictor for pregnancy complication?
A. Heartburn
B. Ankle edema
C. Abdominal pain
D. Vaginal bleeding
148- A 23-year-old woman presents at 18 weeks of gestation with a sudden unexpected rupture of membranes followed
by painless expulsion of products of conception. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Bicornuate uterus
B. Submucous fibroid
C. Intrauterine adhesions
D. Cervical incompetence

Q:
149- A 53-year-old woman presents to the Outpatient Department. She has been unwell for 6 months with arthralgia,
fever, weight loss, and more recently has developed pleuritic chest pains. She also has synovitis of the small joints of the
hands. There were no rashes or nail fold infarcts. Heart sounds are normal Pulmonary Angiography CT: Confirms a
small left pleural effusion. There is no consolidation, pulmonary embolism, and no lymphadenopathy. ECG: Sinus
tachycardia. Which of the following the most likely diagnosis?
A. Infective endocarditis
B. Adult-onset Still's disease
C. Systemic lupus erythematosus
D. Rheumatoid arthritis with vasculitis
Full recall: #rheumatology
A 53-year-old woman presents to the Outpatient Department. She has been unwell for 6 months with arthralgia, fever,
weight loss, and more recently has developed pleuritic chest pains. She also has synovitis of the small joints of the hands.
There were no rashes or nail fold infarcts. Heart sounds are normal (see lab results and reports).
Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg
Heart rate 70 /min
Respiratory rate 18/min
Test Result Normal Values
Hb 89 120-160 g/L
WBC 3.2 4-10.5 x 109/L
Platelet count 99 150-400 × 109/L
Neutrophils 80 40-60%
Lymphocytes 17 20-40 %
MCV 90 80-95 f1
C-reactive peptide 99 <8.2 mg/L
ESR 56 3-15 mm/h
Clotting time 7 5-10 min
Ferritin 920 22-340 pg/L
ANA 1:320 =1:40
Pulmonary Angiography CT: Confirms a small left pleural effusion. There is no consolidation, pulmonary embolus, and
no lymphadenopathy.
ECG: Sinus tachycardia.
Which of the following the most likely diagnosis?
A. Infective endocarditis
B. Adult-onset Still's disease

✅
C. Systemic lupus erythematosus MG
D. Rheumatoid arthritis with vasculitis
150- A 39-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes for 20 years was married recently; she and her husband want to get
pregnant. The woman has hypertension treated with an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and a diuretic
with maintenance of blood pressure at 118/80 mmHg. Her insulin doses are alladministered through a continuous insulin
infusion pump using insulin aspart. She reported that she would try to become pregnant next month (see lab results). 24
hr urine protein 2000 0.8-14 mg/di (Male) 2.5-11 mg/dI (Female) Creatinine 88 44-115 mol/L HbA1C 8.0 4.7-5.6 % What
is the best advice at this moment to control her blood sugar and prevent congenital malformation?
A. Eliminate snacks and begin to take 3 heavy meals daily
B. Substitute an angiotensin receptor blocker for her ACE inhibitor
C. Her age and risk factors indicate the need to begin taking a statin at this time
D. Delay conception until her HbA1c is as close to normal as possible, if this can be safely achieved
151- Which of the following is the common cause of first trimester miscarriage?
A. Obesity
B. Low folate level
C. Cervical incompetence
D. Chromosomal abnormalities
Q: 26-year-old 9 weeks pregnant woman, presented with vaginal bleeding and subsequently had a spontaneous abortion.
Which of the following is the most common cause?
(A) Trauma
B Infection

C Chromosomal abnormality
(D) Maternal anatomic anomalies
152- A 60-year-old man known to have hypertension and post aortic valve replacement on lisinopril 20 mg. amlodipine 5
mg and warfarin 3 mg once daily. He was admitted to the hospital with history of productive cough and shortness of
breath, and was found to have positive acid fast bacilli (AFB) in sputum. First line four anti-TB drugs were started.
Which of the following regarding medications should be done?
A. Lisinopril dose needs to be decreased
B. Amlodipine needs to be stopped
C. Warfarin needs to be increased
D. Rifampin should be stopped
Q: A 60-year-old man known to have hypertension and post aor(cid:0) c valve replacement on lisinopril 20 mg. amlodipine 5
mg and warfarin 3 mg once daily. He was admi(cid:0) ed to the hospital with history of produc(cid:0) ve cough and shortness of
breath, and was found to have posi(cid:0) ve acid fast bacilli (AFB) in sputum. First line four an(cid:0) -TB drugs were started.
Which of the following regarding medica(cid:0) ons should be done?
A. Lisinopril dose needs to be decreased
B. Amlodipine needs to be stopped
C. Warfarin needs to be increased
D. Rifampin should be stopped
Q: A 60-year-old man known to have hypertension and post aortic valve replacement on lisinopril 20 mg. amlodipine 5
mg and warfarin 3 mg once daily. He was admitted to the hospital with history of productive cough and shortness of
breath, and was found to have positive acid fast bacilli (AFB) in sputum. First line four anti-TB drugs were started.
Which’s of the following medications needs to be adjusted?
A. Lisinopril
B. Amlodipine
C. Warfarin
D. Rifampin
153- A 40-year-old man is evaluated in the Emergency Department for several episodes of hematemesis. He has no
previous similar episodes. His history is unremarkable. He takes no medications. There is no jaundice or other signs of
chronic liver disease. Abdominal examination reveals no tenderness, guarding, or rebound (see lab results). Which of the
following is the most likely cause of his gastrointestinal bleeding?
Labs: Blood pressure 105/65 mmHg Heart rate 110/min Temperature 36.8 °C Hb 95 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L
(Female) Platelets count 250 150-400 x 109/L WBC 12 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Prothrombin time 11 10-13 sec Alanine
aminotransferase 30 5-40 IU/L Alkaline phosphatase 26 39-117 IU/L Blood urea nitrogen 14 2.8 to 8.9 mmol/L
Creatinine 88 44-115 mol/L
A. Erosive gastritis
B. Peptic ulcer disease
C. Oesophageal varices
D. Mallory-Weiss tear

154- A 13-year-old healthy girl is brought by her mother with concerns about not yet starting menstruation.
Examination reveals sparse hair covering the labia majora, not extending onto the mons pubis. She has developed breast
buds and papilla and areola enlargement, with no separation in contour between the breast and areola. Which Tanner
stage would this girl be assigned to?
A. Tanner stage I
B. Tanner stage II
C. Tanner stage III
D. Tanner stage IV
155- A 32-year-old woman 30-week pregnant G1+0+0, presented to the clinic with pruritus and jaundice. There is no
fever, abdominal pain, or vomiting. She is not on any Medications and no chronic medical illness (see lab results). Hb 11
120-160 g/L (Female). Platelets count 160 150-400 x 109/L. WBC 7 4.5-10.5 x 109/L. Alkaline phosphatase 700 39-117
IU/L. Alanine aminotransferase 79 5-40 IU/L. Aspartate aminotransferase 100 12-40 IU/L Which of the following is the
most likely diagnosis?
A- Viral hepatitis
B- Hellp syndrome
C- Budd chiari syndrome
D- Cholestasis of pregnancy

Details:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK551503/
156- 67 year old man 6hours post femoral artery surgery developed swelling and worsening neurological signs (Stem
exactly like this)
A- backslap
B- traction
C- fasciectomy
D- nerve repair
fasciotomy ??

I suspect acute compartment syndrome due to reperfusion injury after vascular surgery.
After revascularization:
● Capillary leak = increase compartment pressure.
● Muscle & nerve ischemia = neurologic deficits.
● Can cause permanent damage within 6–8 hours.
✅Emergency fasciotomy to decompress compartments and restore perfusion.
Post vascular surgery + pain/swelling + neuro deficit = compartment syndrome:✅Fasciotomy
Fasciotomy is a surgical procedure where the doctor cuts open the fascia (the tough connective tissue surrounding muscles) to relieve dangerous pressure inside a muscle compartment.
Muscles in the arms and legs are enclosed in tight spaces called compartments.
When swelling or bleeding occurs (after trauma, surgery, or reperfusion):
➡ Pressure increases.
➡ Blood flow decreases.
➡ Nerves and muscles become ischemic.
➡ Permanent damage can occur within hours.
A fasciotomy releases the pressure and saves the limb.
157- A child presents with symptoms suggestive of bronchial asthma, with episodes that worsen during upper
respiratory tract infections. At this visit, the chest X-ray is normal. What is the best information to give the parents
regarding this case? (almost exactly like this, if anyone in the comments can add please)
A. Bronchial asthma increases the risk of upper respiratory tract infections.
B. Polyphonic wheeze occurs on exertion (not exercise)
C. Between attacks, the chest X-ray is normal.
D. Unrelated option
B/C??
158- Pregnant woman in her 38th week admitted to the labor and delivery ward with 4 cm dilation and "complete
breech” presentation. US two days ago showed fetal weight was 2.9kg. CTG is reactive. After 2 hours later there was no
change. what to do next?
A. IV Induction with oxytocin
B. Wait 2 more hours
C. Emergency CS
D. External cephalic version
Term + breech + active labor = Cesarean delivery

✔
According to American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and UpToDate:
1- Breech presentation at term
● Planned cesarean delivery is recommended for most singleton breech fetuses.
● Vaginal breech delivery is only considered under strict criteria and by experienced providers.
2- Patient is already in labor: With persistent breech presentation, labor management should proceed with cesarean delivery rather
than augmentation.
159- Pregnant woman in her 38th week admitted to the labor and delivery ward with 4 cm dilation and "breech”
presentation. CTG is reactive. After 2 hours later there was no change. what to do next? Examiner: No Type Mentioned ,
Just “Breech” , Weight Also Not Mentioned
A. IV Induction with oxytocin
B. Wait 2 more hours
C. Emergency CS
D. External cephalic version
160- A 37-year-old primigravida with uterine fibroid presented at 34 weeks of gestation with abdominal pain and
fever. Examination revealed the cervix is closed, and no uterine contractions are felt. Which of the following is the
most appropriate management?
A. Observation
B. Myomectomy
C. Cesarean section
D. Induction of labor
161- A patient presents with an open femur fracture with a 5-cm wound. What is the first step in management?
A. Immediate surgical debridement
B. IV antibiotics within the first hour
Answer: B
Q: patient fell from a high place and developed a 5 cm thigh wound with dirt. What will you do?
A. Wound clean
B. Blood transfusion
162- A 9-year-old boy is brought to the clinic. The mother is concerned that her child is short. She appears to be short. In a
systemic review, he is asymptomatic. Physical examination is normal (see lab results and report). Blood pressure 130/85 mmg
Heart rate 75/min Respiratory rate 16 /min Temperature 37.2° C Weight 25 kg Height 120 cm Test Result Normal Values Thyroid
stimulating hormone 3.2 0.4 - 5.0 U/L Follicle stimulating hormone 1.4 1.0-1.6 IU/L Luteinizing hormone 0.1 0.05-0.5 IU/L
Growth hormone 4.9 2-10 pg/L Free Testosterone 38.2 10.4-41.6 mol/L Insulin like growth factor - 1 18 67405 ng/mL T X-ray of
Left wrist and hand: The bone age is as a 6year-old child. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Failure to thrive
B. Familial short stature
C. Growth hormone deficiency
D. Missing
Answer: C,MG
163- A patient undergoes a dental procedure and subsequently develops jaundice and chills. Abdominal ultrasound
reveals a 6-cm hypoechoic lesion in the liver. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Oral antibiotics
B. Percutaneous drainage
Answer: B

164- 70 years old male with history of dyslipidemia, on atorvastatin.
He also has a history of recurrent TIA, but now he is asymptomatic. He came complaining of his last TIA
symptoms. His labs are all normal except for LDL (slightly above the normal range) He did carotid US and
showed narrowing 70-90%. What is your management?
A. repeat carotid US after 3-6 months
B. carotid Endarterectomy
C. switch Atorvastatin to rosuvastatin
D. Other can't remember
Answer: B
70 YO male with hx of dyslipidemia, taking atorvastatin,also has hx recurrent TIA but now he is asymptomatic, came
with his last TIA symptoms. labs are normal except LDL (slightly above the normal range) carotid US showed
narrowing 70-90%.management is?
A- repeat carotid US after 3-6 months
B- ✅carotid Endarterectomy
C- switch Atorvastatin to atorvastatin
D- Lifestyle modification
This is a symptomatic high-grade carotid stenosis.
Carotid Endarterectomy (CEA) is a surgical procedure used to remove atherosclerotic plaque from the carotid artery to
restore normal blood flow to the brain and prevent stroke.
✅According to American Heart Association & American Stroke Association & UpToDate:
✅ Symptomatic carotid stenosis:
● 70–99% stenosis = Carotid Endarterectomy (CEA) is strongly recommended
● Best performed within 2 weeks of TIA/stroke symptoms if patient is a surgical candidate.
CEA significantly reduces future stroke risk compared with medical therapy alone.
A. Repeat US : Surveillance is for asymptomatic or mild stenosis, not high-grade symptomatic disease.
C. Switch atorvastatin : He already receives statin; lipid therapy alone is insufficient.
D. Lifestyle modification : Always recommended but not definitive treatment for severe symptomatic stenosis.
165- Diabetic patients present with an inflamed, tender right leg, On examination: skin discoloration, Fluctuance.
What is the most appropriate immediate management?
A. CBC
B. Surgical exploration
C. MRI of the site
D. CT abdomen

Answer: B
- Diabetic patient
- Inflamed, tender leg
- Skin discoloration + fluctuance = suggests abscess or necrotizing infection
- Rapid progression is possible in diabetics (especially necrotizing fasciitis).
According to Infectious Diseases Society of America and UpToDate:
Fluctuance + skin changes in diabetic limb = surgical emergency
- Immediate incision & drainage or surgical exploration is indicated.
- Delay increases risk of sepsis, limb loss, or death.
Diabetic + tender, discolored, fluctuant limb = think abscess/necrotizing infection = immediate surgical exploration.
- Imaging/labs are adjuncts, not first-line in acute obvious cases.
✔Necrotizing Fasciitis is a rapidly progressive, life-threatening infection of the fascia and subcutaneous tissue, often sparing the muscle initially, that can lead to sepsis, tissue necrosis, and death if not treated
promptly.
● Rapid onset and progression.
● Severe pain out of proportion to skin findings.
● Skin changes: erythema, edema, discoloration, bullae.
● Systemic signs: fever, tachycardia, hypotension.
● Fluctuance may appear later (abscess formation).
● Often occurs in immunocompromised patients (e.g., diabetics).
Common Causes:
● Polymicrobial: Type I (Gram-positive + Gram-negative + anaerobes).
● Monomicrobial: Type II (usually Group A Streptococcus).
● Entry point: trauma, surgical wounds, insect bites.
Diagnosis:
● Mostly clinical (do not delay for imaging if suspected).
● Imaging (MRI/CT): helps if diagnosis uncertain.
● Labs: may show leukocytosis, elevated CRP, creatinine, or lactic acidosis.
Management (high-yield exam points)
1. Immediate surgical debridement/exploration (life-saving)
2. Broad-spectrum IV antibiotics (cover Gram-positive, Gram-negative, anaerobes)
3. Supportive care: fluids, ICU if septic
166- Female comes for screening of breast cancer asking what type of nipple discharge should worry her?
A) Spontaneous and bilateral red
B) Spontaneous bilateral milky
C) Induced unilateral green
D) Spontaneous unilateral single duct and clear
Answer: D
167- Elderly man DM HTN was admitted to the ward due to acute abdomen, during laparotomy surgical team found
necrotic bowel and wanted to exclude cardiac causes, his ECG showed sinus rhythm, Echo was normal. What
should you do next?
A. Exercise ECG
B. Holter monitor
C. Repeat Echo
D. Missing
Answer: B
● Holter monitoring (24–48 hr or longer) detects intermittent AF that can embolize = mesenteric ischemia or
stroke.

168- A 43 year old man presented to the ER complaining of lower limb weakness, urinary incontinence and difficulty
walking for 3 days. T10 sensory level on neurological exam. No history of previous infection mentioned. What is the
most appropriate diagnostic test?
A. MRI spinal cord
B. CT spinal cord
169- Patient present with lower limb weakness, back pain and urine incontinence T10 sensory level. What is the
most appropriate test to diagnose?
A. MRI spine
B. CT spine
C. Urine culture
Answer: A
170- Hairdresser came to the emergency department with a swollen bulb of the thumb finger after getting a stick
from the tools she’s using, Nail bed is intact?
A- Felon
B- Paronychia
C- Onychomycosis
D- Cellulitis
Answer:A
● A deep infection of the distal pulp (fingertip pad).
● Causes tense, swollen, very painful bulb of the finger.
● Usually follows a penetrating injury (like a stick from tools — common in hairdressers, barbers, etc.).
● Nail bed is intact (important clue).
● Paronychia = Infection around the nail fold
● Onychomycosis = Fungal infection of the nail.
● Cellulitis = Diffuse skin infection, not localized tense pulp swelling.
Felon is dangerous because the fingertip pulp is divided into multiple septal compartments, so pressure builds up = risk of ischemia and osteomyelitis.
Management:
● Early: antibiotics.
● Late/abscess: incision and drainage.
A felon is a deep bacterial infection of the distal pulp (fingertip pad) of a finger or thumb.
The fingertip pulp is divided into multiple tight fibrous septal compartments.
● Pus builds up inside these closed spaces.
● Pressure increases.
● This can lead to ischemia, tissue necrosis, or even osteomyelitis of the distal phalanx.
● Usually follows a penetrating injury (needle stick, splinter, tool injury).
● Most common organism: Staphylococcus aureus.
● Severe throbbing pain.
● Tense swelling of the fingertip pad (bulb).
● Redness.
● Nail bed usually intact.
● May have fever (late).
● Tissue necrosis.
● Osteomyelitis.
● Flexor tenosynovitis (if spreads).
● Early stage = oral antibiotics
● Abscess present = incision and drainage (I&D)
171- A postpartum woman who is not breastfeeding comes to the clinic asking when she can start using combined
oral contraceptive pills (COCs) for contraception. When is it appropriate to start them?
A. 3 weeks postpartum
B. 6 weeks postpartum
C. 9 weeks postpartum
D. 12 weeks postpartum
A/B??? Not sure
COCs are considered safe to start after 42 days (6 weeks) postpartum.

she was in here early 20s not breastfeeding and with no medical or surgical risk factors
Alhomrani: 3 Weeks
172- When to give dose of antibiotic preoperatively in a pregnant woman with pprom. she was going to OR for CS?
A. 30 minutes before inscision
B. 60 mint before incision
C. 90 min
D. 120 mint
Answer : B
173- A case of a 45 year-old female patient of 35 weeks gestational age. Scheduled for C/S. Taking her pregnancy
vitamins. Her BMI is 31. No risk of VTE mentioned. What should be her VTE prophylaxis?
A. Enoxaparin and compression socks
B. Continue her vitamins and no prophylaxis needed
C. Early ambulation
D. Antiplatelets with aspirin
Not sure BUT Management Principle
For women undergoing cesarean delivery:
- All women, Early mobilization
- Add pharmacologic prophylaxis (LMWH) if additional risk factors are present (e.g., BMI ≥30)
BMI 31 = additional VTE risk factor
So she qualifies for:
✅ Mechanical + pharmacologic prophylaxis
Typically:
- Enoxaparin (LMWH).
B – No prophylaxis : Incorrect (C/S + BMI 31 = increased risk).
174- A 36-year-old woman with a BMI of 48 kg/m² presents to the infertility clinic. Both she and her husband have
normal fertility investigations. They been married for one year. She has been counseled on weight loss before. What
is the best health promotion and illness prevention advice for her?
A. Bariatric surgery
B. Ozempic (semaglutide)
C. Lifestyle modification and calorie restriction
D. Observation
Answer: A
175- A 64-year-old man known to have liver cirrhosis secondary to chronic hepatitis C completed treatment for HCV
and now has undetectable HCV RNA 12 weeks post-treatment. He is asymptomatic. Clinically, he has a few spider
angiomata and mild splenomegaly (see lab results). GB Hidden Labs: Platelet: ~130? (I Am Sure Less Than 150)
Albumen: ~ 30? (Below Reference Range Given , 35) ALT & AST: Both ~60-70 Ultrasound: Mild Splenomgaly Which of
the following is the most appropriate follow-up option?
A- MRI abdomen yearly
B- Reassurance and follow-up
C- Liver ultrasound every 6 months
D- Alpha fetoprotein every 3 months
176- A 14-month-old boy is brought to the clinic with severe gram-positive bacterial pneumonia, was referred to the
hospital by the family physician. This is his third infection in 4 months. He has 2 healthy sisters aged 3 and 5 years. The
family lost a boy at 10 months of age to bacterial pneumonia 6 years ago. The family doctor has sent along some blood
test results that shows low all classes of serum immunoglobulin levels, few B cells, but normal numbers and functioning
of T cells. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy

B. Common variable hypogammaglobulinemia
C. CD40 Genetic/Metabolic/Metabolic defect
D. X-linked hypogammaglobulinemia
177- A 30-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus is evaluated for right hip pain that started 3 weeks ago
and occurs at night and with walking. Her current medications are azathioprine, hydroxychloroquine, prednisolone, and
lisinopril for the last 5 years. Her examination was normal except for pain on internal rotation of the right hip.
Laboratory tests including pelvic and left hip radiographs were normal. Which of the following is the most likely cause
of hip pain?
A. Active lupus arthritis
B. Septic arthritis affecting right hip
C. Avascular necrosis affecting right hip
D. Degenerative changes affecting right hip
178- A 36-year-old woman who is hypertensive on hydrochlorothiazide and losartan presents to the clinic because of the
absence of her menstrual cycle for 2 months. She is asymptomatic. Her physical examination is unremarkable. A
pregnancy test was done and was positive (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment
adjustment?
A. Continue same antihypertensive agents
B. Discontinue all antihypertensive agents
C. Discontinue losartan and start methyldopa
D. Discontinue losartan and start enalapril
Q: women has hypertension on losartan , dhe had secondary amenorrhea and discovered that she is pregnant after done
pregnancy test , her current blood pressure is 140/90 ,what should she do
A- Stop losartan
B- continue losartan
C- stop losartan and start methyldopa
179- A 55-year-old man with a history of heart disease presents with a small lesion on the ear pinna for 2 months. What
is the safest and most appropriate type of anesthesia for excision?
A- Local infiltration with 1% lidocaine
B- Regional anesthesia with levobupivacaine
C- Regional anesthesia with 0.25% bupivacaine
D- Local anesthesia with ropivacaine and adrenaline
180- A 67-year-old man a known case of HCV cirrhosis admitted to Emergency Room with massive hematemesis.
Variceal bleeding is suspected. On examination on, he is drowsy with tense ascites (see lab results). Blood pressure 110/70
mmHg Heart rate 86 /min Oxygen saturation on 95 % Test Result Normal Values Hb 8 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L
(Female) INR 1.3 0.8-1.2 Which of the following management option has a great benefit in reducing this patient
mortality?
A- Octreotide
B- IV ceftriaxone MG
C- Blood transfusion
D- Pantoprazole infusion

181- A 36-year-old man presented to the clinic for evaluation of elevated liver enzyme. He is asymptomatic with no
significant past medical history. He is a smoker and drinks alcohol every weekend. Examination was unremarkable (see
lab results and reports). Test Result Normal Values Total bilirubin 12 3.5-16.5 pmol/L. Aspartate aminotransferase 147
12-40 IU/L. Alanine aminotransferase 76 5-40 IU/L Alkaline phosphatase 119 39-117 IU/L Albumin 33 34-56 g/L Iron 35
11.7-31.8 mol/L (Male) 9-30.4 pmol/L (Female) Total iron binding capacity 34 11.6-31.3 mol/L (Male) 9-30.4 pmol/L
(Female) Ferritin 423 20-300 pg/L (Male) 20-120 g/L (Female) Liver function tests: Hepatitis screen; Negative HCV,
HBAg was negative with positive HBSAD. US Abdomen: Enlarged liver with no focal lesion. Which of the following is
the most likely cause for his underlying liver disease?
A. Hemochromatosis
B. Alcoholic hepatitis
C. Hepatocellular carcinoma
D. Chronic hepatitis B infection
182- A 45-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus comes for routine follow-up visit. She was asymptomatic
and currently on no medications. Her condition is stable for several years (see lab results). Blood pressure 140/90 mmH
Test Result Normal Values 24 hr urine protein 35 0.8-14 mg/di (Male) 2.5-11 mg/di (Female) Protein 500 0-150 mg/24 hr
BC 5000 up to 4,000 in 1 ml Urea 20 2.75-7.4 mmol/L Creatinine 160 44-115 mol/L Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Anti Ds-DNA
B. Renal biopsy
C. Doppler renal ultrasound
D. Repeat urine analysis in next visit
183- A 58-year-old woman with liver cirrhosis presents to the emergency with hematemesis (see report). Upper GI
endoscopy: Bleeding esophageal varices. Which of the following is the most appropriate intravenous pharmacological
treatment?
A. Octreotide
B. Propranolol
C. H2 receptor blockers
D. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)
184- A 63-year-old man was evaluated in the Emergency Room for 1 week of progressive shortness of breath and found
to have right pleural effusion on chest X-ray. Aspiration yielded a clear transudative fluid. Which of the following is the
most likely cause?
A. Pancreatitis
B. Pneumonia
C. Heart failure
D. Malignancy
185- A 35-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department with fever and shortness of breath for 2 days. She is a
known rheumatoid arthritis patient on hydroxychloroquine 400 mg daily. Examination reveals crepitations at the right
lower lung. Renal and liver function are normal. She was treated with cefuroxime with resultant significant
improvement. However, her renal function is deteriorating (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely
cause of kidney function deterioration?
A. Renal vasculitis
B. Acute interstitial nephritis
C. Prerenal acute kidney failure
D. Immune complex glomerulonephritis

186- A 60-year-old man known to have systemic hypertension, gout, and dyslipidemia presented to the Emergency Room
5 days ago with signs of heart failure and was diagnosed with congestive heart failure and new-onset diabetes mellitus.
He was stabilized and discharged on Lasix, aspirin, Plavix, and metformin. Yesterday, he came to the ER with severe
pain and redness in the first metatarsophalangeal joint. Examination confirms tenderness and swelling of that joint.
Which of the following medications has most likely caused this new complaint?
A. Lasix
B. Plavix
C. Aspirin
D. Metformin
187- A 45-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Room complaining that her period has not stopped for the past
15 days. Now she is feeling drowsy and easily fatigued and sometimes faints. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next management step?
A. Ultrasound
B. Urine pregnancy test
C. Dilatation and curettage
D. Complete blood count and BhCG
1- https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/43076
2- https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/43078
Q: A 44-year-old woman presented with heavy vaginal bleeding (see lab results). Hgb 68 Which of the following is the
most appropriate next step in management?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Mefenamic acid
C. Insert hormonal IUD
D. Dilatation and curettage
https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/43080
188- A 23-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) presented to the clinic with a 3- month history of
lower-extremity swelling and shortness of breath. She has not had chest pain, palpitations, or fevers. On physical
examination, she has jugular venous distention and engorgement with inspiration. Heart sounds are distant; a
prominent early diastolic sound without gallops or murmurs is heard. Breath sounds are normal. Abdominal
examination reveals shifting dullness. Pitting edema to the level of the knees is noted (see lab results). Which of the
following SLE association most likely explains the current condition?

Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 95 /min Respiratory rate 25 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 90
%. Hb 90 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count 450 150-400 x 109/L WBC 3 4.5-10.5 x 109/L
Creatinine 150 44-115 mmol/L Albumin 28 34-56 g/L Complement C3 0.5 0.7-1.5 g/. Complement C4 0.1 0.15-0,45 g/L.
Aspartate aminotransferase 100 12-40 IU/L Alanine aminotransferase 94 5-40 IU/L
A. Constrictive pericarditis
B. Myocardial infarction
C. Liver failure
D. Renal failure
189- A 7-year-old boy has had recurrent upper and lower respiratory tract bacterial infections since infancy. On
examination, he has eczema and areas of ecchymosis on his skin. His brother and a paternal uncle are similarly affected
(see lab results). Hb 108 112-165 g/L WBC t.6 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Platelets count 40 150-400 × 109/L Which of the following
is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Severe combined immunodeficiency
B. Bruton agammaglobulinemia
C. Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome
D. DiGeorge syndrome
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is
a rare X-linked recessive genetic immunodeficiency affecting mostly males, characterized by the triad of low
platelet count (microthrombocytopenia), severe eczema, and recurrent infections. It is caused by mutations
in the WASgene, which impairs immune cell function and disrupts platelet production. Management includes
antibiotics, immunoglobulin infusions, and definitive treatment through stem cell transplantation.
Details: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK539838/
190- A 35-year-old man comes to the Emergency Room after falling while running a marathon. He has dark urine that is
dipstick positive for large blood, but no RBCs on microscopic analysis. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Hemorrhagic cystitis
B. Glomerulonephritis
C. Rhabdomyolysis
D. Pyelonephritis
191- A 17-year-old student presented with recurrent attacks of mild wheeze and shortness of breath despite using
inhaled salbutamol regularly. Which of the following is the best next step in the management?
A. Oral prednisolone
B. Inhaled corticosteroid
C. Low-dose aminophylline
D. Inhaled ipratropium bromide
192- A 60-year-old man admitted to the Emergency Room with 1-day history of hematemesis. He has multiple spider
angiomata on his chest with bilateral gynecomastia. Abdominal examination showed splenomegaly (see lab results).
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management after the initial fluid resuscitation?
Blood pressure 100/60 mmHg Heart rate 100/min, Respiratory rate 18/min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 95
% Test Result Normal Values Hb 8.5 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) HCT 0.23 0.42-0.52 (Male) 0.37-0.48
(Female)

A. Blood transfusion
B. Upper Gl endoscopy
C. Selective angiography
D. Nasogastric tube insertion
193- A 42-year-old woman presented to the clinic for follow-up of a 7-month history of chronic, nonproductive cough.
She was recently diagnosed with cough-variant asthma after a methacholine challenge test. She was started on inhaled
fluticasone and as-needed albuterol 2 months ago. Her cough initially improved; however, her symptoms have not fully
resolved and are worsened at times, most notably when she lies down. She also noted that mild hoarseness occasionally
accompanies her cough, especially when she wakes up in the morning. Examination revealed a dry cough with frequent
throat clearing. The chest was clear with no wheezing. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A- Add a long-acting B2-agonist
B- Add a proton pump inhibitor
C- Start nocturnal antitussive therapy
D- Repeat methacholine challenge testing
194- A 49-year-old woman is evaluated for a 4-month history of dry cough, which began 4 months ago when she noted a
paroxysmal onset of persistent coughing spells that make it difficult to carry on a conversation. She was initially
diagnosed with allergic rhinitis and was started on a glucocorticoid nasal inhaler with no improvement. Medical history
is otherwise unremarkable except for a history of dust allergies. Examination revealed normal vital signs, slight nasal
congestion, and dry cough are noted during the examination. Cardiovascular, pulmonary, and abdominal examination
findings are unremarkable (see reports). Chest radiograph: Normal. Spirometry: Slightly reduced FEV/FVC ratio of
70% which increased after bronchodilator challenge by 20%. Which of the following is the most appropriate diagnostic
test to perform next?
A- Allergy skin testing
B- High-resolution chest CT
C- Measurement of serum IgE levels
D- Methacholine challenge testing
195- A young woman with acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis is evaluated in the Emergency Department. Which of the
following is the most appropriate management?
A. Treat as outpatient with ciprofloxacin
B. Treat as outpatient with clarithromycin
C. Admit and start carbapenem antibiotics
D. Admit to start ceftriaxone and vancomycin
196- A 60-year-old man presents to the ER with symptomatic hyponatremia. Which of the following is the most serious
consequence of rapid correction of hyponatremia?
A- Hypokalemia
B- Hypernatremia
C- Volume overload
D- Central pontine myelinolysis
197- A 79-year-old man is evaluated in follow-up for a 2-mm solitary pulmonary nodule that was incidentally discovered
on imaging for chest pain 4 years ago. Follow-up chest CT scans were obtained at 1-, 2-, and 3-year intervals, and the
pulmonary nodule has remained unchanged. He feels well and does not have any respiratory or constitutional
symptoms. He has never smoked. Physical examination reveals normal vital signs and a normal cardiopulmonary
examination. Which of the following is the most appropriate recommendation?
A. Repeat chest CT in 1 year

B. Repeat chest CT in 2 years
C. Repeat chest CT in 5 years
D. No further imaging is necessary
198- A 38-year-old woman who is not known to have any medical illness is referred to the clinic because of a chest xray
that showed prominent hilar structures bilaterally. She is having on- and-off cough but denies any history of shortness of
breath, sputum production, chest pain, skin lesions, weight loss, fever, or contact with sick people. She is not a smoker.
Examination reveals clear chest bilaterally (see lab results and reports). CT chest: Confirmed bilateral hilar
lymphadenopathy, otherwise lung parenchyma was clear. CT-guided biopsy: Showed noncaseating granuloma. Which of
the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Observe
B. Start prednisone
C. Start azithromycin
D. Start anti-tuberculosis therapy
Case of Sarcoidosis
Stage I
أﺪﺒﻧ ﻰﺘﻣ
Steroids؟
:ﮫﯿﻓ نﺎﻛ اذإ Prednisone أﺪﺒﻧ
● Dyspnea ﻢﮭﻣ
● Progressive lung involvement
● Hypercalcemia
● Ocular involvement
● Cardiac / neurologic involvement
199- A 4-year-old girl is brought to the Pediatrics Emergency Department with vomiting and lethargy. The parents
report a weight loss of 1 kg over the last 2 weeks. There has been little appetite, but a lot of thirst and frequent urination.
The child appeared sleepy and irritable. Physical examination confirmed dry mucous membranes and a generally
reduced skin tone. After running several exams, the pediatrician started IV treatment with ringer lactate plus added
electrolytes and a low-dose insulin infusion (see lab results). Test Result Normal Values pH 7.2 7.36-7.45 Glucose 20
3.5-5.5 mmol/L Urinalysis Result Normal Value Ketones positive Negative Which of the following complications should
be observed?
A. Hypoglycemia
B. Kidney failure
C. Cerebral edema
D. Metabolic alkalosis
New-onset Type 1 DM presenting with DKA:
In pediatric DKA, cerebral edema is:
● The most serious and life-threatening complication.
● More common in children <5 years.
● Usually occurs within the first 4–12 hours of treatment.
● Associated with rapid fluid shifts and osmotic changes.
200- A 7-year-old boy is brought to the clinic with the complaints of mild abdominal pain, constipation and aggression.
The mother told the physician that he is used to eating tissue paper and chipped off wall paint (see lab results and
report). RBC 3.9 4.6-4.8 x 1012/L Hb 74 112-165 g/L MCH 23 28-33 pg/cell MCV 70 80-95 fl

Peripheral blood smear: Microcytic hypochromic. Which of the following is the most likely type of anaemia?
A. Aplastic
B. Pernicious
C. Haemolytic
D. Iron deficiency
201- A 22-year-old patent presented to the Emergency Department with history of expulsion of products of conception at
home. On examination, cervix were closed with minimal vaginal bleeding. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Complete abortion MG
B. Inevitable abortion
C. Threatened abortion
D. Incomplete abortion
202- A 73-year-old with altered level of consciousness, DM, HTN, IHD, liver cirrhosis. Exam: lower limb edema, ascites.
Labs: Na 125 , glucose 8 mmol. Next step?
A. NS
B. ½ NS
C. D5 NS
D. Furosemide
Management of hypervolemic hyponatremia:
● Fluid restriction
● Loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide)
● Treat underlying cirrhosis
● Consider spironolactone (first-line for ascites)
203- A 34-year-old woman with a history of asthma and allergic rhinitis has been discharged from the hospital 2 weeks
ago following an acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma and reports generally poor control with a persistent nighttime
cough and exertional wheeze. Her current asthma therapy is salbutamol inhaler 100 mcg prn, beclometasone
dipropionate inhaler 800 mcg bd, and salmeterol 50 mcg bd. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in
outpatient management?
A. Ipratropium inhaler
B. Low-dose oral prednisolone
C. Leukotriene receptor antagonist
D. Modified-release theophylline
204- A 55-year-old man is evaluated for an 18-month history of intermittent, non productive chronic cough, and dyspnea
with exertion. No history of fever, chest pain, heartburn, loss of appetite, or weight loss. He has smoked 1 pack daily for
the last 30 years. His medical history is otherwise unremarkable, and he takes no medications. Examination revealed he
is comfortable, no jugular venous distention, normal heart sounds, no murmur, clear lungs, and no lower limb edema. A
chest radiograph and electrocardiogram are normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate next diagnostic
test?
A. Sleep study
B. Spirometry

C. Chest CT scan
D. Bronchoscopy
205- A 50-year-old man known to be an alcoholic presented with progressive abdominal distention and yellow
discoloration of the sclera. The patient gave a history of vague abdominal pain mainly at the epigastrium. Fluid thrill
was found upon examination, suggestive of ascites. Diagnostic paracentesis was done (see lab results). Which of the
following is the most likely cause of his ascites?
A. Nephrotic syndrome
B. Acute pancreatitis
C. Portal hypertension
D. Congestive heart failure
206- A 33-year-old woman, who is known to have bronchial asthma and chronic sinusitis, is complaining of worsening
shortness of breath and a cough that disturbs her sleep. She denied any fever, headache, or chest pain. Her medications
include salbutamol MDI prn and paracetamol. Chest examination reveals bilateral expiratory wheezes. Which of the
following should be added to the management plan?
A. Montelukast
B. Budesonide MDI
C. Oral prednisone
D. Ipratropium bromide MDI
207- A 9-year-old child presents to Emergency Department with hypovolemic shock. Parents gave history of recent brain
surgery and the child has polyuria and increased thirst since then (see lab results). Blood pressure 70/40 mmg Heart rate
136 /min Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 95 % Which of the following is the most
likely diagnosis?
ABG HCO3- 20 13-22 mmol/L ABG PCO2 35 27-40 mmHg рн 7.37 7.36-7.45 ABG PO2 88 8-24 mmHg (Newborn) 55-80
mmg (Child) Base access -6 -2 to 2 mmol/L Sodium 177 134-146 mol/L Potassium 4 3.5-5.1 mol/L Chloride 140 97-108
mmol/L Bicarbonate 20 21-28 mmol/L Blood urea nitrogen 8 0.7-6.7 mmol/L (Newborn) 1.8 to 6.4 mmol/L (Child)
Creatinine 60 27-88 mol/L. (Newborn) 27-62 mol/L. (Child) Glucose 4.5 2.8-5 mmol/L (Newborn) 3.3 -5.5 mmol/L
(Child)
Color colorless clear or light yellow Appearance Clear clear Specific gravity 1003 1001-1030 Ketones absent Absent.
A. Diabetic ketoacidosis
B. Diabetes insipidus
C. Renal tubular acidosis
D. Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion
208- A 33-year-old 7 weeks' pregnant woman presented with vaginal bleeding and a history of passing tissue at home.
Examination revealed an open cervix with moderate vaginal bleeding. Ultrasound: Intrauterine 3x4 cm tissue seen.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Conservative
B. Intravenous oxytocin
C. Intramuscular methergine
D. Evacuation of the uterine cavity
209- A 65-year-old-woman presented to the clinic with a 5-day history of pain and swelling in the left knee. Her pain
aggravated by walking and relieved by rest. No history of small joints involvement or significant morning stiffness. On

examination, left knee is swollen but not warm or erythematous. Left knee X-ray shows osteophytes and joint space
narrowing. Joint aspiration reveals 280 leukocytes/mm (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely
arthritis?
Blood pressure 140/80 mmHg Temperature 36.6 °C BMI 35 kg/m2 Test Result Normal Values Hb 125 130-170 g/L (Male)
120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count 300 150-400 x 109/L. WBC 11.5 4.5-10.5 x 109/L ESR 8 2-10 mm/h (Male) 3-15
mm/h (Female)
A. Osteoarthritis
B. Rheumatoid
C. Gouty
D. Septic
210- A 25-year-old pregnant woman presented with abdominal cramps and mild vaginal bleeding. Examination revealed
an open cervix with mild bleeding. Ultrasound: A 7-week viable intrauterine pregnancy. Which of the following is the
most likely type of abortion she had?
A. Missed
B. Inevitable
C. Incomplete
D. Threatened
211- A 20-year-old woman, recently married, presents with burning micturition for one week. Physical examination
reveals suprapubic tenderness (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate antibiotic?
A. Oral nitrofurantoin
B. Oral fluoroquinolone
C. Gentamicin intravenously
D. Oral beta-lactam antibiotic
Q: Newly Married Woman Has Been On Her Honeymoon For 1 Week And Is Now Complaining Of Dysuria And
Frequency. How Will You Manage?
A. Ampicillin
B. Nitrofurantoin
C. Ciprofloxacin
D. Ceftriaxone
Answer: B
212- A 75-year-old man presents to the Outpatient Department complaining of back pain and increasing difficulty with
passing urine (see lab results). Prostate-specific antigen 84 0–4 pg/L Alkaline phosphatase 410 39–117 IU/L Albumin 41
34–56 g/L Gamma glutamyltransferase 19 6–37 IU/L Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Prostatitis
B. Prostatic cancer
C. Urinary bladder cancer
D. Benign prostate hyperplasia

213- A 32-year-old woman is evaluated because of a 3-month history of weight loss, heat intolerance, tremor, and
irritability. Physical examination reveals a tremor and a non-tender goiter. She has negative thyroidstimulating
immunoglobulins (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Primary TSH-secreting tumor
B. Tertiary hypothyroidism
C. Toxic nodular goiter
D. Grave's disease
214- 50 or 55 yrs free male, incidentally found to have A-fib, HR:110, BP:110/70 What is the best treatment for him?
A- Clopidogrel
B- Aspirin + clopidogrel
C- Aspirin ???
D- Warfarin
215- A 38-year-old man presents to the clinic complaining of severe epigastric pain that is worse after eating. He
describes the pain as burning in nature with mild improvement with antacid therapy. Physical examination is
unremarkable (see lab results). Test Result Normal Values Hb 120 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets
count 450 150-400 x 109/L WBC 10 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Urea 8.5 2.75-7.4 mmol/L Creatinine 65 44-115 mol/L What is the
most appropriate test to establish the diagnosis?
A. CT scan of the abdomen
B. Upper endoscopy MG
C. Barium swallow
D. H. pylori antibody
Q: A 38-year-old man presents to the clinic complaining of severe epigastric pain that is worse after eating. He describes
the pain as burning in nature with mild improvement with antacid therapy. Physical examination is unremarkable (see
lab results). Test Result Normal Values Hb 120 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) What is the most appropriate
test to establish the diagnosis?
A. CT scan of the abdomen
B. Upper endoscopy
C. Barium swallow

D. H. pylori antibody
216- A 32-year-old man is evaluated for a 10-month history of fatigue and diarrhoea. He has a good appetite but has
unintentionally significant weight loss over the past 10 weeks. He has not had blood in the stool, melena, or other obvious
source of blood loss. His systemic examinations are unremarkable. Stool is negative for occult blood (see lab results).
Which of the following is the best treatment?
Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg, Heart rate 80 /min Respiratory rate 16 /min Temperature 36.6 °C MI 18 kg/m2 Hb 109
130-170 g/ (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) MCH 20 28-33 pg/cell MCV 70 80-95 f1 Platelets count 455 150-400 x 109/L
WBC 8 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Aspartate aminotransferase 30 12-40 IU/L Alanine aminotransferase 26 5-40 IU/L Albumin 32
34-56 g/L Total bilirubin 10 3.5-16.5 pmol/L
A. Loperamide (anti-diarrhoea agent)
B. Metronidazole (antibiotic drug)
C. Mebendazole (anti-parasitic drug)
D. Gluten-free diet
217- A 30-year-old woman presents with recurrent attacks of dyspnea and cough when exposed to dust and perfumes.
Physical examination is normal except for mild expiratory wheeze on lung auscultation (see report). (Edit in examiner,
she using Salmeterol) Spirometry: Reversible bronchospasm. Which of the following is most appropriate to initiate at
this stage?
A. Inhaled tiotropium
B. Inhaled salbutamol
C. Inhaled budesonide
D. Montelukast
218- A 36-year-old woman is evaluated during her first prenatal visit for Medical history of hypothyroidism, for which
she has taken levothyroxine 125 g/d, for the last 2 years. On physical examination, no goiter or cervical
lymphadenopathy. Cardiovascular, pulmonary and abdominal examinations are unremarkable (see lab results). Which
of the following is the most appropriate treatment of this patent’s hypothyroidism now?
Blood pressure 100/73 mmHg Heart rate 87 /min Respiratory rate 13 /min Temperature 36.5 °C Oxygen saturation 97 %
BMI 23 kg/m2 Test Result Normal Values Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone 4.4 0.4 - 5.0 jU/mL Thyroxine (T4 free serum)
9.5 8.5 - 15.2 pmol/L.
A. Increase levothyroxine dose
B. Continue levothyroxine dose
C. Decrease levothyroxine dose
D. Discontinue levothyroxine dose
219- gravida 10 weeks with a past history of pain less delivery at 18 weeks and loss the baby.what to follow in this
pregnancy?
A. Reassurance
B. Cerclage at 13 weeks
C. Cerclage at 15 weeks ??
D. Serial ultrasound for progress ???????
● Previous painless delivery at 18 weeks: suggests cervical incompetence.

A prior second-trimester painless loss is an indication for history-indicated (prophylactic) cerclage.
History-indicated cerclage is performed at 12–14 weeks, most commonly at 13 weeks.
● 1 painless 2nd-trimester loss: prophylactic cerclage at 12–14 weeks.
● Short cervix found incidentally (<25 mm) without history: vaginal progesterone.
● Short cervix + prior preterm birth : cerclage.
220- Female came with a history previous misscarriage in her first pregnancy, now came for counseling about the second
pregnancy ( she is in 10 weeks )
A. Insert cervical cerclage at 13 weeks
B. Insert cervical cerclage at 18 weeks
C. Clinical assessment of cervical dilation
D. Serial ultrasound to assess cervical length and dilation
Exam trick ⚠
● Painless 2nd trimester loss: cerclage at 12–14 weeks.
● Just one previous miscarriage (unspecified): serial cervical length monitoring.
221- Female pregnancy 10 weeks GA came with a history of ( one mid trimester abortion at 18 weeks happened by
painlessly dilatation of the cervix and spontaneous expulsion ) of fetus in her first pregnancy, now came for counseling
about the second pregnancy
A. Insert cervical cerclage at 13 weeks
B. Insert cervical cerclage at 18 weeks
C. Clinical assessment of cervical dilation
D. Serial ultrasound to assess cervical length and dilation
222- Female came with a history of cervical incompetence in her first pregnancy, now came for counseling about the
second pregnancy
A. Insert cervical cerclage at 13 weeks

B. Insert cervical cerclage at 18 weeks
C. Clinical assessment of cervical dilation
D. Serial ultrasound to assess cervical length and dilation
223- A newborn presents with poor feeding, tongue fasciculations, and decreased deep tendon reflexes. What would you
tell the parents?
A. The condition is mild and will resolve on its own.
B. A muscle biopsy is needed to choose the proper treatment.
C. With good nutrition, life expectancy can increase.
D. There is a new therapy that is more effective if started early.
Case of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) , especially Type 1 (Werdnig-Hoffmann disease).
● Newborn
● Poor feeding
● Tongue fasciculations
● Decreased deep tendon reflexes
● Hypotonia
These findings strongly suggest Spinal muscular atrophy, caused by SMN1 gene mutation.
Important counseling point (modern management):
There are now disease-modifying therapies, and outcomes are significantly better when started early (even pre-symptomatic).
Examples include:
● Nusinersen
● Onasemnogene abeparvovec
● Risdiplam
Early treatment dramatically improves survival and motor outcomes.
✅ Correct answer: D. There is a new therapy that is more effective if started early.
If you see tongue fasciculations in a floppy baby = think SMA immediately.
Details: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK558933/
224- 38 weeks with absent deep tendon reflex, tongue fasciculation. EMG showed denervation. Family concerned about
the child’s condition. What is the appropriate counseling?
A- Reassure, condition disappears later
B- Medication improves symptoms and quality of life
C- Medicine is developing and there are new and better options now
225- A female patient presents with features of Cushing’s syndrome (facial hair, stria, obesity) that developed over 3–4
months. Laboratory tests show both ACTH and cortisol are elevated. What is the most likely type of Cushing’s
syndrome?
A. Pituitary adenoma
B. Adrenal adenoma
C. Exogenous steroid use
D. Ectopic ACTH secretion
Q: A female patient presents with features of Cushing's syndrome for 4 months. Laboratory tests show
High cortisol

8am =840,
4pm= 500
High ACTH = 15 (high)
TSH =4 (normal)
What is the most likely diagnosis ?
A. Pituitary adenoma
B. Adrenal adenoma
C. Exogenous steroid use
D. Ectopic ACTH secretion
Answer: A
226- A diabetic patient presents with a well-demarcated plantar foot ulcer. The patient has nearly diminished sensation
and intact peripheral pulses. The ulcer shows central erythema with signs of healing. What is the most critical test to
perform to reach the diagnosis?
A. ABI
B. Monofilament test
C. CT scan
D. Assessment for pressure points
Plantar ulcer + intact pulses + sensory loss = think diabetic neuropathic ulcer = monofilament test.
The 10-g monofilament test assesses protective sensation loss , the key underlying mechanism here.



227- Old patient came with leg swelling and absent or diminished pulses what you will do next?
A. doppler ultrasound
B. MRI
C. CT scan
D. HbA1c
228- 14 years old boy came with sudden severe left abdominal and groin pain on examination you find out
transillumination test negative, severe tender on touch,slight elevated testicle. What is diagnosis ?
A. Testicular torsion
B. Direct inguinal hernia
C. indirect inguinal hernia
D. Hydrocele

229- 43 years old female came with heavy vaginal bleeding and she want contraceptive methods which test to do is
compulsory before advising any treatment?
A. Pelvic ultrasound
B. CT scan
C. endometrial biopsy
230- 18 years old female came with painful cycle and acne on face pain disturb her routine and she is already on Nsaid
which are not helpful anymore whats next?
A. Ocps
B. progesterone pills
C. Continue Nsaids
231- A 90-year-old female with long-standing incisional hernia presents to ER with abdominal pain and fecalith
discharge. Her hernia is strangulated with ulcers and necrosis. All vitals are normal. Management?
A. Dressing
B. Laparoscopy
C. MRI
D. Laparotomy abdomen
232- Old male came for routine exam doctor accidentaly found out a mild swelling in inguinal region when he cough or
lay straigh which is not tender and cause nothing symptoms. What to do?
A.Watchful and routine followup
B.open surgery
C.laproscopic with mesh

D.reasuure
233- what is appropriate after trauma history with decrease pulses and ulceration on arm?
A. fasciotomy ?
B. surgery ??
C. elevation above heart
- Not sure
● A. Fasciotomy: Done for compartment syndrome (pain out of proportion, tense compartment, pain with passive stretch).
Decreased pulses alone after trauma suggests arterial injury first.
● B. Surgery ✅ Urgent vascular surgical exploration/repair is required in trauma with reduced pulses. This is
limb-threatening ischemia.
● C. Elevation above heart: Elevation actually worsens arterial perfusion in ischemia.
234- Graivda 39 and obese and baby good weight what to do to avoid shoulder dystocia?
✅
A. Suprapubic maneuver
B. gaskin maneuver
C. rubin maneuver
pregnant woman with diabetes mellitus and obesity is being evaluated for obstetric risk Which of the following is the most
appropriate maneuver to help prevent shoulder dystocia during delivery?
A. Rubin maneuver
B. Suprapubic pressure
C. Gaskin maneuver
D. Zavanelli maneuver
✅
Answer B
235- gravida came with chances of DVT what you give?
A. Warfarin
B. LMWH
Q: Pregnant lady with PE
A. Lmwh
B. Warfarine
C. Thrombolytic
D. Wasnt clear if stable or not
236- abruption placenta risk factor?
A. DM
B. Maternal HTN

C. Fibroid
Q: What is the most common risk factor for abruptio placenta?
A. Folate deficiency
B. Short Umbilical cord
C. Maternal hypertension
D. Premature rupture of membrane
237- gravida 41weeks child deliver via NVD and had respiratory distress but not saturated what next?
A. 30-40 %oxygen
B. NPO
C. surfactant
D. give magnesium
● A. 30–40% oxygen ✅ First-line management is supplemental oxygen for hypoxia.
● C. Surfactant: Used mainly in preterm RDS, not a 41-week baby.
● D. Give magnesium: Magnesium is not used for neonatal respiratory distress.
238- A 25-year-old pregnant woman with 7 weeks' amenorrhea presented to the clinic with a history of passing tissue at
home and vaginal bleeding. Examination revealed mild vaginal bleeding with a closed cervix. Which of the following is
the most likely abortion type?
A. Complete
B. Inevitable
C. Threatened
D. Incomplete
239- CT scan of the brain shows an intracerebral hemorrhage. The patient is hemodynamically stable. What is the
target of blood pressure acceptable In The First 24-48 Hours?
A- 100-120 mmHg
B- 120-140 mmHg ?????
C- 140-160 mmHg
D- 160-180 mmHg
🤔
Not sure
240- An 80 year old complaining of urinary incontinence and inability to defecate unless using her finger to help. Unfit
for surgery.
A. Vaginal pessary

241- An 80-year-old woman known case of prosthetic heart valve on warfarin and bedridden. Diagnosed as stage 3 pelvic
organ prolapse. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Pessary
B. Sacrocolpopexy
C. Le Fort colpocleisis
D. Vaginal hysterectomy
Q: A 81 year old woman with pelvic organ prolapse complains of chronic constipation she reports that she needs to press
inside the vagina with her hand to facilitate stool evacuation she is currently unfit for surgery what is the most
appropriate management until she becomes fit for surgery?
A- Laxatives
B- Vaginal pessary
C- Pelvic floor exercises
D- Hormone replacement therapy
242- Patient with hypertension, with heavy bleeding and anemia, what contraceptive she can use?
A. Tubal ligation
B. IUD Mirena
C. Condom
D. OCP
:ﺔﻠﯿﺳو جﺎﺘﺤﻧ
ﻒﯾﺰﻨﻟا ﻞﻠﻘﺗ ✔
(تﺎﻄﻠﺠﻟا ﺮﻄﺧ ﺪﯾﺰﯾو مﺪﻟا ﻂﻐﺿ ﻊﻓﺮﯾ ﺪﻗ ﻦﯿﺟوﺮﺘﺳﻹا نﻷ) ﻦﯿﺟوﺮﺘﺳإ يﻮﺘﺤﺗ ﻻ ✔
اذﺎﻤﻟ ؟؟
?(Mirena (Levonorgestrel IUD
ﻂﻘﻓ نوﺮﯿﺘﺴﺟوﺮﺑ زﺮﻔﯾ ●
(%90–80 ﻰﻟإ ﻞﺼﯾ ﺪﻗ) ةﺮﯿﺒﻛ ﺔﺒﺴﻨﺑ ﻒﯾﺰﻨﻟا ﻞﻠﻘﯾ ●
heavy menstrual bleeding ـﻠﻟ جﻼﻌﻛ ﺎًﯿﻠﻌﻓ مﺪﺨﺘﺴُﯾ ●
ﻂﻐﻀﻟا ﻰﺿﺮﻣ ﻲﻓ ﻦﻣآ ●
● It contains progestin only (no estrogen).
● It significantly reduces heavy menstrual bleeding (up to 80–90% reduction).
● It helps improve anemia by decreasing blood loss.
● It is safe in patients with hypertension.
If a patient has hypertension + heavy menstrual bleeding = choose a progestin-only method, especially the levonorgestrel IUD.
243-Old man fell down and then came to the ER confused, CT brain showed: crescent shaped lesion, most likely dx?
A- Subdural hematoma
B- Epidural hematoma
C- Subarachnoid hemorrhage
Answer: A
Q: CT scan picture with show crescent shape.asking for diagnosis
A. Subdural Hematoma
Differentiate from Epidural Hematoma:

● Epidural hematoma → Biconvex (lens-shaped)
● Does NOT cross suture lines
● Often due to rupture of the middle meningeal artery
244- Child contact with his maid she had TB, the child +ve igra +ve x ray but no Clinical findings. What should
treatment for child? (Picture of lung TB)
A. rifampicin and isoniazid for 3 months
B. isoniazid for 6 months
C. RIPE
IGRA = Interferon-Gamma Release Assay
active TB disease So treatment should be full anti-TB therapy.
According to World Health Organization and pediatric TB guidelines:✅Correct answer: C. RIPE
Standard initial therapy for active pulmonary TB:
● Rifampicin
● Isoniazid
● Pyrazinamide
● Ethambutol
(2 months intensive phase followed by continuation phase with RI)

● IGRA +, CXR normal → Latent TB → INH 6 months (or 3HR).
● IGRA +, CXR abnormal → Active TB → RIPE.
Q: A 9-year-old child had contact with a household worker who has tuberculosis; interferon- gamma release assay
(IGRA) of the child is positive and chest x-ray is showing consolidation ( positive) . What is the next step?
A) Rifampin for 6 months
B) Rifampin plus isoniazid for 3 months
C) Full RIPE therapy (rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol)
245- Child contact with his maid she had TB, the child +ve igra . but no Clinical findings. What should treatment for
child? (Picture of Normal CXR)
A. rifampicin and isoniazid for 3 months
B. isoniazid for 6 months
C. RIPE
246- A 10 years old DM1 with vomiting/ nausea and lobate breathing, his glucose was 380. pH 7.12. What is the next ?
A- IV antibiotics
B- IV fluid and regular insulin infusion ???
C- Subcutaneous insulin + oral hydration
D- Carbohydrates

Q: A 10-year-old child presented to the ER with nausea, vomiting, and deep breathing. Laboratory results: • Random
blood glucose: 380 mg/dL • ABG: • pH = 7.0 • HCO₃⁻ = 10 mmol/L What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. IV sodium bicarbonate
B. IV fluids and insulin infusion
C. Subcutaneous insulin and hydration
D. Increase bicarbonate to avoid ketosis
247- 13-year-old obese boy presents with persistent hypertension documented on multiple visits. Examination reveals
acanthosis nigricans over the neck and axillae. What is the next step to establish diagnosis?
A. Catecholamine ??
B. Renal US
C. Ambulatory BP Monitoring
248- 11year old child with high blood pressure during school screening”"اﺬﻛ بﻮﺘﻜﻣ نوﺪﺑ مﺎﻗرا Repeat blood pressure
measurements above the 95th percentile for age and sex. He has a positive family history of type 2 diabetes mellitus &
HTN Examination: weight >95th percentile with acanthosis nigricans " not mentioned that the patient has any
symptoms like headache …..” What is the next step to establish diagnosis? • Aldosterone–renin ratio
A. Catecholamine levels ??
B. Renal artery US
C. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring
This step will confirm true hypertension and avoid misdiagnosis due to “white coat” effect, especially in children and
adolescents.
Ambulatory BP Monitoring (ABPM) → gold standard to confirm persistent hypertension in children. Pediatric guidelines
recommend ABPM to confirm the diagnosis before workup.
Catecholamine → for pheochromocytoma. Not first-line here, no symptoms like palpitations, headache, sweating.
249- 11year old child with high blood pressure during school screening”"اﺬﻛ بﻮﺘﻜﻣ نوﺪﺑ مﺎﻗرا Repeat blood pressure
measurements above the 95th percentile for age and sex. He has a positive family history of type 2 diabetes mellitus &
HTN Examination: weight >95th percentile with acanthosis nigricans " not mentioned that the patient has any
symptoms like headache …..” What is the next step to establish diagnosis?
A. Aldosterone–renin ratio
B. Catecholamine levels
C. Renal artery US
D. Cortisol Level ؟؟؟؟

✅
- My answer: None of the above are first-line. The next step is to confirm persistent hypertension using
Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring (ABPM).
250- An elderly patient with a known history of ischemic heart disease underwent coronary artery bypass grafting
(CABG). A few days after surgery, he developed a surgical site infection that progressed to septicemia. Despite
appropriate management, the patient’s condition worsened to multiorgan failure, and he ultimately died. Which of the
following should be recorded as the primary cause of death in his death certificate?
✅✅
A- Septicemia ???
B- Ischemic heart disease
C- Congestive heart failure
D- CABG
ةﺎﻓﻮﻟا ةدﺎﮭﺸﺑ ﺐﺘﻜﯾ ﻲﻠﻟا ﻮھ ﻲﺋﺎﮭﻨﻟا ﺐﺒﺴﻟا نا ﻰﻟا ﺖﻠﺻو ﻞﯾﻮط ﺚﺤﺑ ﺪﻌﺑ
My answer is ✅A- Septicemia
According to UpToDate’s guidance on death certificates, the certifier should list the underlying terminal condition as the cause of death on the certificate ، that is, the disease or condition that started the chain of
events leading directly and inevitably to death. This is reflected in the standard approach to completing Part I of the death certificate (underlying cause listed on the lowest line), and the underlying condition is
considered the cause of death used for mortality statistics.
- Another answer: WHO definition: the disease or injury which initiated the train of morbid events leading directly to death, or the circumstances of the accident or violence which produced the fatal
injury
- IHD➡ CABG➡ Septicemia ➡ Multiorgan failure ➡ Death
251- 24 yo primigravida, on 14 wks US was showing molar pregnancy, suctioning dilation was done and pt is now
reassessing Bhcg level weekly, pt was advised to use contraceptive: What is the best method (were asking what give more
health benefits)
A) Vaginal Ring
B) OCP
C) IUD
D) Ligation
252- IUGR baby with persistent hypothermia was but in a warm area but with no improvement, What is the
management?
A. Glucose infusion
B. Skin to skin contact
C. Increase ambient temperature and assess after 24 hs
D. Emperical antibiotics and full septic workup
UpToDate states that temperature instability (fever or hypothermia) in neonates is a common presenting sign of neonatal sepsis. Therefore, if a neonate has persistent hypothermia despite adequate
warming, clinicians should evaluate for sepsis and start empiric antibiotics while awaiting cultures.
If a neonate (especially IUGR or low birth weight) has persistent hypothermia after warming, the recommended step is: ✅Full septic workup + empiric antibiotics.
Nelson explains that in newborns:
● Hypothermia, lethargy, poor feeding, and respiratory distress are typical signs of neonatal infection.
● Persistent hypothermia not responding to warming should prompt sepsis workup and empiric antibiotics.
● When hypothermia persists despite adequate warming, guidelines recommend evaluation for neonatal sepsis, especially in high-risk neonates such as IUGR.
● In neonates, temperature instability (hypothermia) is a classic early sign of sepsis, not just fever.
● Therefore the next step is:
○ Full sepsis workup
○ Start empiric IV antibiotics
253- woman became pregnant soon after delivery. She Had 4 Months Of Amenorrhea After Delivery. What Is the Best
Way To Properly Date Her Pregnancy?
A- LMP
B- First trimester US

C- 2nd trimester US
D- 3rd trimester US
Q: P2 woman came to the clinic for a positive pregnancy test. She delivered 4 months ago and has been fully
breastfeeding. Amenorrhea since delivery. How to date pregnancy?
A) Last menstrual period
B) First trimester ultrasound
C) Second trimester ultrasound
D) Third trimester ultrasound
254- 39 y.o with mycoplasma pneumonia started on antibiotics and supportive therapy. On day 3 She started
complaining of yellowish discolouration of the eyes and mild abdominal pain Hb 60, Reticulocyte 4 (high) ALT normal
AST high Haptoglobin 0.4
A- Observe
B- Stop ABx ??
C- Corticosteroids ??
D- Oral Rituximab
- Reference: Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine and UpToDate.
Mycoplasma pneumonia is a classic cause of cold agglutinin autoimmune hemolytic anemia.
Mechanism:
● Infection triggers IgM cold agglutinins.
● These antibodies destroy RBCs → hemolysis.
Management For autoimmune hemolytic anemia secondary to infection, treatment is:
● Treat the underlying infection.
● If hemolysis is clinically significant (severe anemia like Hb 60) → corticosteroids✅
● Stop antibiotics isn’t the answer:The hemolysis is due to Mycoplasma infection, not the antibiotic.
If hemolysis occurs after starting a drug → stop drug.
If hemolysis occurs with Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection → think cold agglutinin autoimmune hemolysis → steroids if severe.
Q: Pt admitted to hospital and put on medications. after 3 days of admission she developed fatigue, abd pain, yellowish
in eyes
Labs : Hb: 68 (normal above 120) Reticulocytes: 4 % Haptoglobin : low LDH: high (Was 300 , And 600 in other Recalls)
What is the best medication to give ?
A/ aspirin
B/ rituximab
C/ corticosteroids
D/ Stop Abx ?
● Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine: Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia → management is immediate
discontinuation of the causative drug.
● UpToDate: First step in suspected drug-induced hemolysis is stop the offending medication.
Acute hemolysis:
● Hb = 68 g/L (very low)
● Reticulocytes = 4% → marrow responding
● Low haptoglobin → hemoglobin binding due to hemolysis.
● High LDH → RBC destruction.
● Jaundice (yellow eyes) → ↑ indirect bilirubin.
LDH stands for Lactate Dehydrogenase.
What is LDH? LDH is an intracellular enzyme found in many tissues. It participates in energy metabolism by converting lactate to pyruvate.

Why does LDH increase in hemolysis? Red blood cells contain a high amount of LDH.When RBCs are destroyed (hemolysis):
- LDH is released into the blood.
- Serum LDH level increases.
255- 10 year old boy with cushing syndrome due to left adrenal adenoma, scheduled for adrenalectomy. What is the most
important post operative management?
A. Continues lifelong corticosteroids
B. Discontinue steroid immediately
C. Give stress dose steroid, then gradually taper down
D. Initiate fludrocortisone to maintain sodium balance
Q: An adrenalectomy for a Left cortisol-secreting adenoma causing Cushing's syndrome. Which following postoperative
management plans is most appropriate for this patient?
A- Stress dose IV hydrocortisone and taper gradually
B- Lifelong steroid
C- Stop steroids
D- Fluconazole to maintain sodium
256- Pregnant woman in her 38th week presented with 4 cm dilation and breech presentation. 2 hours later there
was no change. CTG is reactive. (everything generally fine)
A. Wait 2 more hours
B. Emergency CS
C. External cephalic version
D. induction of labor
Answer: B
257- 34 weeks gestation, came with 6 hrs ruptured membrane, no contraction, -1 sation, no fever and vitally stable,
and her fundal height is 30 weeks , speculum exam revealed meconium stained liquor, best next step?
A. Induction of labor
B. Immediate cs
C. Prophylactic Abx and induction of labor
D. Prophylactic Abx and wait for 37 weeks
Answer: A or C https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/43231
Meconium-stained amniotic fluid suggests possible fetal stress, which further supports not delaying delivery.
● Cesarean is not required unless there is fetal distress or obstetric indication.
● Since the cervix is not contracting but there is no contraindication to vaginal birth = induction of labor.
Best answer: C. Prophylactic antibiotics and induction of labor
A. Induction of labor only is not correct incomplete (GBS prophylaxis should be given).
B. Immediate C-section is not correct not indicated without fetal distress.
D. Wait until 37 weeks is not correct contraindicated in PPROM ≥34 weeks.

258- Physician had chronic back pain, prescribed himself oxycodone, present to work, agitated and with pinpoint
eyes?
A .Something related to stress and burn out
B. Drug abuse, and opioid overuse
C. Missing
D. Missing
Answer: B https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/symptoms/23575-eye-miosis
259- A 17-year-old girl presents with a 6-month history of irritability, poor concentration, tension, and anxiety. She is
highly active on social media, posting daily. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
B. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)
C. Decrease time on the phone to 6 hours
D. Encourage her to avoid using social media
Answer: A
Q: Seventeen-year-old female presents with decreased concentration for past 6 months; spends around 9 hours
daily on social media and compares herself frequently with others. Symptoms suggestive of anxiety and depression
but no prior medical treatment. What is the best course of action?
Start Antidepressant
Force her to leave social media
Limit social media time
Cognitive behavioral therapy
260- 30-year-old woman with a history of infertility for 6 years complains of severe dysmenorrhea unrelieved by
naproxen. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Endometritis
B. Leiomyomata
C. Endometriosis
D. Pelvic congestion
Answer: C
261-
262- A 62-year-old male with a history of uncontrolled hypertension, presented with severe headache and altered
mentation. A CT scan of the brain shows an intracerebral hemorrhage. The patient is hemodynamically stable. What
is the target of blood pressure acceptable?
A- 100-120 mmHg
B- 120-140 mmHg
C- 140-160 mmHg
D- 160-180 mmHg

Answer: C or B
263- Most common subtype HPV in cervical cancer?
A.11 /12
B.16 /18
C. 32/ 36
D. 44
Answer: B
264- 22-year-old woman with a history of multiple sexually transmitted diseases presented at the 37th gestational
week for her first antenatal visit. The obstetrician is concerned about this maternal infection which may cause
conjunctivitis and blindness in the newborn. Which of the following is the most suitable for health promotion and
illness prevention?
A. Reassurance
B. Azithromycin administration
C. Newborn screening after delivery
D. Referral to infectious disease clinic
265- A 38 year old female with intermittent RUQ pain for several months, associated with nausea, vomiting and
jaundice. On examination, there is mild right upper quadrant tenderness. Labs: high bilirubin and LFTs. What is the
most appropriate diagnostic imaging?
A. MRCP ??
B. Abdominal US ??
C. CT Abdomen
This presentation suggests biliary obstruction, most likely Choledocholithiasis (common bile duct stone).
For RUQ pain or suspected gallstones:
1 ⃣ Ultrasound first
2 ⃣ If CBD stone suspected = MRCP or EUS
3 ⃣ If confirmed = ERCP (treatment)
266- Elderly (I think smoker k/c of hypertension and DM) presents with diminished right leg pulse (not sure, maybe
with calf pain, it was something pointed to acute limb ischemia or acute on top of chronic), there is popliteal bypass
scar (smth like that) on his left leg (yes left, and I’m sure the present complain on his right leg not left) Which of the
following indicates acute limb ischemia? (It was acute not chronic I’m sure)
A. Intermittent claudication
B. Rest leg pain
C. Left leg popliteal bypass
D. Smoking (not sure about this option)
267- A patient came with pneumonia sx productive cough, fever, pain, pic was provided (lobar pneumonia),
treatment was initiated (IV cetriaxone, paracetamol, tramadol), after one day he became stable and improved what
drug to stop? Reduced platelets count (around 70 I think)
A. Paracetamol
B. Tramadol
C. Ceftriaxone
D. Vancomycin
Answer: C

268- A pregnant woman is admitted for labor. After continuous pushing, she is now exhausted. The baby is engaged
at +2 station and shows minimal variability with late deceleration The mother exhausted and can't push What is the
most appropriate management?
A. Cesarean section
B. Operative vaginal delivery
C. Reassessing after 1 hour
D. Oxytocin
Answer: B
269- A mother is worried about her son who has asthma. What is the most appropriate counseling?
A. He will develop chronic lung disorder
B. Childhood asthma will disappear by adolescence
C. He will have asthma for the rest of his life
D. No correlation between childhood and adulthood asthma
Answer: B
270- Female with 6 weeks amenorrhea, bhcg was 700, they gave a table with range of bhcg for weeks 0-4, 0-6 and
0-7. Her bhcg was in normal range according to the table they gave, but TVUS showed no intrauterine pregnancy,
what will you do?
A- give methotrexate
B-repeat bhcg in 48 hours
C-repeat US in 48 hours
Answer: B
271- 6 month old baby with right esotropia since birth. Absent red light reflex in right eye and negative
cover/uncover test. What is the management?
A. Reassurance
B. Referral to ophthalmology
272- Middle aged man came with metal objects lodged in his eye.
What to do next?
A- Referral to ophthalmology
B- Removal of object and irrigation
C- Antibiotic and Out-Patient follow up
D-Apply patch

Answer: A
273- A patient with diabetes presents with swelling of the big toe and warmth and tenderness of the (calf) for 4 days.
There is 2 cm ulcer over the first metatarsal area. No discharge is noted. Distal pulses are intact. What is the most
appropriate investigation?
A-Duplex ultrasound
B-Conventional angiography
C-MRI
D- CT with contrast
Answer: C or A not sure
A. Duplex ultrasound:
● Best for DVT evaluation
● Patient has calf tenderness = DVT must be ruled out in diabetics with swelling
● Non-invasive, first-line
C- MRI : for osteomyelitis
● MRI is the gold standard to detect osteomyelitis
● Indicated if bone involvement suspected (ulcer >2 cm, chronic, deep, or non-healing)
Patient with diabetes presented with big toe swelling and discharge for 4 days. There was an ulcer 2cm on the first
metatarsal (smthn like that). Distal pulses intact. Whats the most appropriate way to assess?
A. Duplex US
B. Conventional angio
C. MRA
D. CT with contrast
274- Newborn 2 days old came with lethargy, hypotension and pallor. History of Ventose used during delivery. Had
head swelling that cross the suture lines. Hb 7.5. Normal platelets normal PTT PT?
A. Observe and serial Hb measurement
B. Blood transfusion and fluid resuscitation
C. Vit K
Answer: B
● Hb 7.5 g/dL → severe anemia for a newborn
● Vacuum-assisted delivery → risk of birth trauma
● Head swelling crossing suture lines → caput succedaneum (benign, resolves spontaneously)
● Lethargy, hypotension, pallor, Hb 7.5 → significant blood loss / anemia
● Normal coagulation → not Vitamin K deficiency bleeding
Management:
Severely anemic, symptomatic neonate = requires urgent blood transfusion and fluid resuscitation.
● Observation alone → unsafe (Hb <8, hypotensive, lethargic)
● Vitamin K → unnecessary here (PT/PTT normal, no bleeding).
Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics
● Hemodynamically unstable newborns with Hb <8 → blood transfusion indicated.
● Vacuum deliveries → more likely caput or cephalohematoma. Severe anemia in first 1–2 days usually indicates internal bleeding or significant birth trauma.
275- 30-year-old male presented with polydipsia and polyuria, has positive family history of type1 diabetes mellitus;
labs show HbA1c 8.5%, C-peptide 0.09 (low), high parathyroid hormone (PTH), high calcium. What is the most likely
diagnosis?
A) Type 1 diabetes mellitus
B) Type 2 diabetes mellitus
C) Central diabetes insipidus

D) Maturity onset diabetes of the young MOD
Answer: A
● Polydipsia and polyuria → suggests diabetes.
● HbA1c = 8.5% → confirms diabetes mellitus.
● C-peptide = 0.09 (very low) → indicates little or no endogenous insulin production.
● Family history of type 1 DM.
● Low C-peptide = Type 1 DM.
● Normal/high C-peptide = Type 2 DM وأ MODY.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus , Most likely (Correct)
● In Type 1 DM, autoimmune destruction of pancreatic β-cells occurs.
● This leads to very low or absent C-peptide because C-peptide reflects endogenous insulin secretion.
● Although it commonly presents in younger patients, it can occur in adults (sometimes called LADA – latent autoimmune diabetes in adults).
Note about high calcium and high PTH: This suggests primary hyperparathyroidism, which may be a separate condition and does not change the diabetes diagnosis in
this question.
276- A 9-year-old girl presents to the emergency department with pain between her legs after falling from a bicycle.
She was screaming from pain in between her legs. She is accompanied by her mother. On examination, with the
presence of her mother a bluish hematoma is noted in the left labia. What is the most appropriate management?
( no mention of LARGE)
A. Topical Ice placement
B. Prophylactic antibiotics
C. Examination under anesthesia
D. Surgical evacuation of hematoma
Answer: A
Q: A 9-year-old girl presents to the emergency department with severe pain between her legs after falling from a
bicycle. And she was screaming in the ER because of the pain. She is accompanied by her mother. On examination,
a hematoma is noted in the left labia. (*The hematoma is bluish and tender*). What is the most appropriate
management?
A. Ice Bag placement
B. Prophylactic antibiotics
C. Examination under anesthesia
D. Surgical evacuation of hematoma
277- A 32-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department with sudden, painless loss of vision in her right
eye. Neurological examination reveals decreased visual acuity and a relative afferent pupillary defect. Fundoscopy
is unremarkable. A CT scan of the brain and orbits shows hyperdensity. CSF showing oligoclonal band. What is the
most appropriate initial management?
A. Oral prednisone
B. IV methylprednisolone 1000 mg
C. Rituximab
D. Interferon Beta
Acute optic neuritis, which is strongly associated with Multiple Sclerosis.
● Oral prednisone alone is Not recommended initially because it increases recurrence of optic neuritis (shown in the
Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial).
Why IV methylprednisolone is the correct initial treatment ??
Evidence from the Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial showed:

● IV methylprednisolone (1 g/day for 3–5 days)
✔ Speeds recovery of vision
✔ Reduces short-term risk of developing MS
So the initial management of acute optic neuritis = high-dose IV steroids.
Q: 25 year old female presented with 2 day history of blurry vision, weakness and numbness. Denied hx of drug
abuse, fever, or similar symptoms in the family. She admits seeking medical help for it before and the findings were.
MRI: periventicular white matter CSF: Oligocolonal bands What is the most appropriate management to do?
A. rituximab
B. interferon beta
C. prednisone 50 mg OD
D. IV Methylprednisolone 1000 MG
278- 50-year-old man presents for a routine follow-up.He has no history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or
hypertension. On *high dose of atrovstatins* His physical examination is unremarkable. Laboratory investigations
reveal: cholesterol: within normal range Triglycerides: significantly elevated (2.8) normal (2.2) What is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A- increase Statin dose
B- Omega-3 fatty acids
C- Niacin
D- Evolocumab
Answer: B
279- Elderly women with previous laparotomy for sigmoidectomy after complicated diverticulitis, she had an mild
incisional hernia (There was mention of cough impulse and that it doesn't bother her but not exactly) It became
painful with exercise and expanded. But no signs of strangulation (this was stated in the scenario) What is the best
action?
A. Reaassure
B. Open repair without mesh
C. Laproscopic repair
D. Laproscopic repair with mesh reinforcement
Answer: D
● Asymptomatic hernia → observation possible
● Symptomatic or enlarging hernia → surgical repair
● Incisional hernia → mesh repair (often laparoscopic).

280 281
282
283
284
285
286
287

288
289
290
291- B✅ 292
293

294
295
296
297
298
299

300
301
302
303

304
305
306

307
308- 309
310
311
312-313
314
315
316

317
318
319
320
321
322

323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330

331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338

339
340
341
342
343
344
345

346
347
348
349-
A patient with sickle cell disease presents with acute chest syndrome and bilateral lung infiltrates
on chest X-ray. What is the most appropriate treatment?
A- Allopurinol
B- Hydroxyurea

C- Exchange transfusion
D- Methotrexate
350- A 40-year-old male, 5-pack-year smoker presents to the Emergency Room with a sudden onset of
retrosternal chest pain radiating to the neck. His blood pressure is 150/92 ECG: ST-segment depression in II, III,
and aVF. Which of the following is the most considerable risk factor?
A. Smoking
B. Male gender
C. Patient's age
D. Hypertension
Answer: D
351- A newborn is delivered with cleft palate, micrognathia, and glossoptosis. He has difficulty suckling and
breathing, is partially fed via NG tube, and experiences random episodes of apnea. What is the most appropriate
management?
A. Refer to ENT and continue NG tube feeding until ENT evaluation
B. Refer for sleep study and provide NG tube feeding for evaluation of breathing
C. Refer for palate surgery and respiratory monitoring
D. Counsel cardio and genetics while maintaining NGT for feeding
Answer: ?? Not sure until now
Q: Newborn delivered with cleft palate micrognathia and glossoptosis. He has trouble suckling and breathing, he
was Partially on NGT. He has some random cessation of breathing and apnea. What is the most appropriate initial
management?
A-Coordinate ENT and clinical genetics inputs while maintaining NGT feeding
B-Refer to sleep study for evaluation of breathing
C-Refer palate surgery and respiratory mentoring
352- Pediatric boy presents with low-set ears, hypertelorism, webbed neck. On examination: pulmonary stenosis
and came with history of failure to thrive. What is the most appropriate next step?
A- Refer to cardiology and genetic testing
B- Refer to endocrinology and measure growth hormone
C- C- Refer to gastroenterology
Answer: A

353- Child presents with a distal radius fracture. On examination, there is swelling, redness, pain, and paresthesia of
the hand. Distal pulses are intact. What is the most appropriate management?
A- Fasciotomy
B- Elevation of the hand
Answer: A
354- Patient came to your clinic today he mentioned he had an RTA 1 week ago and complaining of mild abdominal
pain after the accident. O/E: Vitally stable. Mild abdominal pain mainly in the right upper quadrant. No other
complaints or findings. What is the most appropriate initial step?
A- Do Abdominal ultrasound
B- Refer him to emergency department for further evaluation
C- Do blood work to rule out hemorrhage
Answer: A؟؟ B
Q: Patient came to outpatient clinic today he mentioned he had an RTA 1 week ago and complaining of mild
abdominal pain after accident. O/E: Mild abdominal pain mainly in the right upper quadrant. No other complaints or
findings. What is the most appropriate next step? Vitals Mentioned In Numbers (It Was Large Table , All Vitals Were
Within Normal Range)
A. Abdominal ultrasound ؟؟
B. Refer him to emergency department for further evaluation ؟؟
C. Do blood work to rule out hemorrhage
Q: Same Above , Vitals Were Written In Numbers. HOWEVER , Some Vitals Were Abnormal
Answer: B. Refer him to emergency department for further evaluation
Q:
355- A 36-year-old male presents to the emergency room with right abdominal pain. On examination, he is febrile,
toxic, and has tenderness in the right upper quadrant and lower intercostal margins. He reports anorexia and weight
loss. Laboratory findings: Elevated temperature (~37.9°C) High WBC count. Elevated bilirubin Ultrasound: cystic
lesion with thick wall in the liver What is the most appropriate step in management? ( I Am Sure It Was Not “Next” )
A- Ceftriaxone
B- Metronidazole
C- Surgical drainage
D- Percutaneous drainage
Answer: D
256- Caes of child with Leukocoria with well-demarcated retinal lesions and calcifications Ask about diagnosis:
A.Toxocariasis
B. Retinoblastoma
C.Coats disease
D. congenital rubella
Answer: B
Q: 1-year-old infant brought to you to evaluate leukocoria, afterfundoscopy of retina, you found stable
non-progressive retinal calcifications,no family hx of any eye disease, what is the most likely diagnosis?
A-Toxicosis.

B-Coat’s diasease.
C-Retinoblastoma.
Q: A child’s parents notice a white pupillary reflex when taking a photograph with a camera flash.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Retinoblastoma
B. Congenital cataract
Answer: A. Retinoblastoma (Age Was 2 Years)
Q: Pediatrics pt 2 yr come to clinic complaint of white reflex on his right eye after photo with flash, no pain or
change in
vision What's the diagnosis:
A- Retinoblastoma
B- Congenital cataract
C- Coat disease
D- Optic nerve glioma“
Answer: A- Retinoblastoma
357- years old girl came complaining of irregular cycle and hirsutism. On examination only there is hirsutism. Lab
tests of TSH, dehydroepiandrosterone, testosterone only done and all are normal.
What is the management?
A- spironolactone
B- colmiphene citrate
C- progesterone pill only
D- oral contraceptive pills
Answer: D
358- A patient with a history of Alzheimer’s disease has been on donepezil for 6 months, and no improvement was
noticed. His MMSE was 19 (six months ago) and is now 12. MRI show hippocampus atrophy What is the next best
step in management?
A) Add sertraline
B) Add Memantine
C) Add Rivastigmine
D) Switch Donepezil to memantine
Answer: B

359- Patient had chemotherapy, after 1 day (written like this) developed fever, labs showed low WBC and low
neutrophils What to do?
A- IV antibiotics
B- Close observation
C- Antibiotic and antiviral
D- Oral antibiotic and antifungal
Answer: A
360- Pediatric came after a fall while playing, currently stable. ECG picture provided and was SVT. What is the
treatment (not sure if it initial or most appropriate) ?
A- Amiodarone
B- Adenosine
C- Cardioversion
D- Beta blocker
Answer: C
361- Description of epidemiology case + a new screening test was developed to even include the missed cases.
Which one is high?
A- Specificity
B- Sensitivity
C- Positive predictive value
D- Negative predictive value
Answer: B
362- A 13-year-old obese boy presents with persistent hypertension documented on multiple visits. Examination
reveals acanthosis nigricans over the neck and axillae. Patient also has [headache sweating and palpitations] What
is the next step to establish diagnosis?
A. Catecholamine
B. Cortisone level and ACTH
C. Renal US
D. Ambulatory BP Monitoring
??
363- A mother of a 2-month-old infant complains that her baby has frequent episodes of excessive crying, 3 hours
raise legs and pass gas. She asks how to treat?
A. Simethicone drops
B. Soothing like motion, white noise.
C. Antibiotics
D. US abdomen
Answer: B
364- A group of researchers are doing a study by gathering people with Alzheimer’s disease and giving them fish
oil. What is the primary approach that is used by the IRB to assess the ethical acceptability of the research study?
a. Utilitarianism
b. Deontology
c. Ethical skepticism
d. Comparativeism
Answer: B
365- a study observing 1000 people for one year, 15 of them developed breast cancer. How should this incidence be
interpreted? A) 15% of the population have breast cancer
B) 15%…..
C) 15 people will develop breast cancer each year

D) 15 people out of 1000 population will develop breast cancer -in year
Answer: D
366- Child brought by his mother with diarrhoea , the mother noted that there is blood and mucus ?
A - Rotaviruses
B - Norovirus
C -
D- Campylobacter
Answer: D
Blood and mucus in diarrhea. This usually indicates inflammatory (invasive) diarrhea, which is most commonly caused by bacterial pathogens, not viruses.
Campylobacter ✅Causes inflammatory diarrhea with blood and mucus, abdominal pain, and sometimes fever. It is one of the most common bacterial causes of dysentery in children.
- Watery diarrhea = Viral (Rotavirus, Norovirus)
- Bloody + mucus diarrhea (dysentery) = Bacterial (Campylobacter, Shigella, EHEC)
References:
- Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics
- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – Campylobacter infections
367- A 30 yo patient with persistent HTN despite being on 2 antihypertensive medications. Laboratory investigations
show Hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis (elevated DH) What is the most appropriate next step to identify the
underlying cause of hypertension?
A- 24-hour urine cortisol
B- Renin:aldosterone ratio
C- Plasma metanephrines
D- Renal artery Doppler ultrasound
Answer: B
368- Regarding febrile convulsions in children, which of the following statements is correct?
A- There is a 2% chance to develop epilepsy
B- If it is a complex febrile seizure, it is more likely to progress to epilepsy
C- If parents had febrile seizures, it will increase the chance to progress to epilepsy
D- Using antipyretics will decrease the chance of febrile Convulsions
Answer: B
⬇ﺢﯾﺣﺻﺗ ةدﺎﻋا جﺎﺗﺣﯾ اذھ لاؤﺳﺳﻟا
369- A 55 YO male underwent PTC (percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography) for obstructive jaundice. After 24
hours of the procedure he developed hematemesis. His vitals are stable. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. CT abdomen
B. Upper GI endoscopy
C. US
D. Angiography MedGard✅✅
ﺎطﺧ ﻲھ وﻟ ﻰﺗﺣ ظﻔﺣﺗ ﻲﻠﻟا ﻲھو D ﻲھ MG ﺔﺑﺎﺟا
Best diagnostic/management step or active bleeding Often Angiography, which can diagnose and treat the bleeding via
embolization.
⬆Explanation: The recent procedure: Percutaneous Transhepatic Cholangiography (PTC) followed by hematemesis after 24 hours. It’s the most likely
complication of PTC.
- PTC can cause hemobilia (bleeding into the biliary tree) due to injury of a hepatic vessel. Blood passes through the bile duct to duodenum and
presents as hematemesis or melena.
Classic triad of hemobilia (Quincke triad):
1- RUQ pain
2- Jaundice
3- GI bleeding
After hepatobiliary procedures (PTC, liver biopsy, ERCP), hemobilia is a known complication.

Next step:
Pt is hemodynamically stable, the best initial diagnostic step is ✅Upper GI endoscopy
-
It is the first-line investigation for hematemesis.
- It can show blood coming from the ampulla of Vater, suggesting hemobilia.
- It also excludes other common causes of upper GI bleeding (ulcer, varices).
- CT abdomen is not first-line for acute hematemesis.
- Ultrasound is low sensitivity for hemobilia.
- Angiography is used after diagnosis or if bleeding persists, and allows embolization.
Reference:
- Schwartz’s Principles of Surgery
- Sabiston Textbook of Surgery
- American College of Gastroenterology guidelines for upper GI bleeding.
✔Post-hepatobiliary procedure + hematemesis = think hemobilia, first test = Upper GI endoscopy
✔Definitive diagnosis & therapy = Angiography with embolization.
370- A 73-year-old woman underwent percutaneous trans-hepatic cholangiography for treatment of obstructive
jaundice. 24 hours after the procedure, she started to have upper gastrointestinal bleeding (see lab results).
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in the management plan?
Blood pressure 105/62 mmHg Heart rate 89 /min Respiratory rate 22 /min Oxygen saturation 94 % Test Result Normal
Values Hb 103 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) WBC 7.8 4.5-10.5 x 109/L
A. CT scan
B. Endoscopy
C. Ultrasound
D. Angiography✅✅MG
371- DM patient came with dental infection and subsequently develops jaundice and chills. Ultrasound reveals a 6
cm hypoechoic lesion in the liver. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Oral antibiotics
B. Percutaneous drainage
C. Anti-fungal and follow up
Answer: B
372- Patient had had MVA was stable, (I think after 2 days), had shortness of breath, chest examination: decreased
breath sounds and dullness on percussion on one side of the chest, also hypotensive. diagnosis?
A. Hemothorax
B. Tension pneumothorax
C. Pulmonary or cardiac contusion
D. Cardiac tamponade
Answer: A
⬇ ﺢﯾﺣﺻﺗ ةدﺎﻋا جﺎﺗﺣﯾ
373- A Patient with Fatigue, Recurrent ureteric stones and bone pain Ca:
3.50 mmol Parathyroid adenoma: 2 cm parathyroid adenoma What's
Most Appropriate NEXT Step In Management? No Polyurea,
Polydipsia, No CNS Symptoms
A. Bisphosphonate ؟
B. Calcium metetics
C. Increase calcium diet
D. Parathyroidectomy ؟
Answer: D or A ??
Q: A Patient with Fatigue, Recurrent ureteric stones and bone pain Ca: 3.50 mmol Parathyroid adenoma: 2cm
parathyroid adenoma What's Most Appropriate Step In Management?

A. Bisphosphonate
B. Calcium meteics
C. Increase calcium diet
D. Parathyroidectomy
Most Appropriate ➔ D. Parathyroidectomy
Most Appropriate NEXT ➔ A. Bisphosphonate (If There Is IV Fluid OR Calcitonin , Then Go For It)
374- A newborn presents with persistent bleeding after circumcision that does not stop with compression. There is
a positive family history of a bleeding disorder affecting both his brother and mother. (no labs).
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hemophilia A
B. Von willebrand disease
C. Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
D. Platelet disorder
Answer: B✅ Details: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK459222/
375- Patient known case of diverticulosis presented with Mild and intermittent pain left lower quadrant. How to manage
?
A- CT abdomen
B- IV antibiotics
C- High fiber diet
376- Old man known case of diverticulosis, came complaining of mild intermittent left lower abdominal pain, has no
fever normal WBCs and no signs of peritonitis. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A- CT abdomen
B- IV antibiotics and bowel rest
C- Increase fiber and fluid intake
D- Laparotomy
377- 28 years old female came to the clinic complaining of on and off painless rectal bleeding, she had anal swelling that
reduced spontaneously, Anoscopy showed hemorrhoids on 3,7,11 o'clock with active bleeding. Labs showed anemia,
Hemoglobin was 8.8, what is the most appropriate management?
A. Follow up
B. Conservative treatment
C. Rubber band ligation
D. Hemorrhoidectomy

378- A patient presents with an open fracture. What is the initial management?
A- Compression ??
B- Analgesia and fluids
C- IV antibiotics ??
D- Immediate surgical debridement and stabilization
379- Patient with trauma to the thigh about 4cm with visible underline tissues and bone. What is the initial treatment?
A. Apply a compressive dressing ??
B. Analgesia and fluids
C. IV antibiotics within the first hour ??
D. Immediate surgical debridement and stabilization
Discuss with us: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/43406
✔
Needs a double check
ATLS ,
Standard trauma sequence:
1. Primary survey (ABCDE)
2. Start IV broad-spectrum antibiotics immediately
3. Tetanus prophylaxis
4. Sterile dressing and immobilization
5. Urgent surgical debridement and fixation
✔ATLS (Advanced Trauma Life Support) – by the American College of Surgeons
● States that early IV antibiotics are essential in all open fractures to reduce infection risk.
● Antibiotics should be given as soon as possible after diagnosis, ideally within 1 hour.
● After that: sterile dressing, splinting, tetanus prophylaxis, then urgent surgical irrigation and debridement.
✔Schwartz’s Principles of Surgery
● Emphasizes that the most important early intervention in open fractures is prompt administration of IV antibiotics.
● Surgical irrigation and debridement follow after initial stabilization.
✔Campbell’s Operative Orthopaedics
● Recommends immediate IV antibiotics upon diagnosis of an open fracture, followed by operative debridement and stabilization.
If the question asks “initial management of open fracture” ➡IV antibiotics
If the question asks “definitive management” ➡Surgical irrigation, debridement, and stabilization
380- A surgeon conducted a research study on a new surgical procedure that was supposed to have fewer complications.
During one of the operations, a patient developed bleeding. The surgeon decided to remove this case from the research
report to make the results look better. Which ethical principle did the surgeon violate?
A. Beneficence
B. Research Justice
C. Integrity ﺔھاﺰﻨﻟا
D. Non-maleficence
Discuss: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/43407 هﺎھﺪﻌﺑ ﻲﻠﻟا ﻞﯾﺎﺳﺮﻟاو ﺎﻨھ ﮫﻤﮭﻣ
- The surgeon intentionally removed a complication (bleeding case) from the research results to make the procedure appear
safer.
- This is considered data falsification / selective reporting, which violates research integrity and honesty.

Q: A surgeon conducted a research study on a new surgical procedure that was supposed to have fewer complications.
During one of the operations, a patient developed bleeding. The surgeon decided to remove this case from the research
report to make the results look better. Which ethical principle did the surgeon violate?
A. Beneficence
B. Research Justice
C.
D. Non-maleficence
“Integrity” Was Not Present In Options in the new recall.
381- 14 year old boy came in for pre-sport screening he had a murmur, his dad died at 40 years old ECG shows long QT:
A- continue sport and do annual ECG
B- give beta blocker and only do sports that require low effort
C- don't do sport and consider pacemaker
D- it's ok to do sports
382- 14 year old boy came in for pre-sport screening he had a murmur, his dad died at 40 years old ECG shows long
QT?
A- continue sport and do annual ECG
B- Restrict sport and give beta blocker
C- do minimal sport and consider pacemaker
D- only do sport with low exertion
B??
383- 4 month-old infant has been at the 25th percentile for weight and length since birth. Development is normal, feeding
is adequate, but the family is concerned about growth. What is the most appropriate next step?:
A. Continue routine follow-up in well-baby clinic and keep up-to-date with vaccinations
B. Postpone follow-up and monitor weight weekly at home
C. Refer to endocrinology for growth hormone evaluation
D. Increase caloric intake to accelerate growth
384- 4m. Old baby present to the clinic for routine visit she has consistent growth on 25th percentile for both weight and
height since birth. She is feeding well and has normal development. Her parents are concerned about being too small.
What should you do?
A. Refer to endocrinologist for growth hormone assessment
B. Reassure and continue follow up
C. Increase caloric intake
D. Delay the immunization
385- 9 month old baby exclusively breastfeeding. Weight is 10th percentile. What advice to give.
A. Improve caloric intake.
B. Weight fluctuation is normal at this age.

C. Add more proteins in diet
386- 2 month old Down syndrome baby with poor feeding and interrupted feeding, hepatosplenomegaly, murmur, other
symptoms. Management?
A. Medical only
B. Increase calorie intake
C. Surgical correction 3-4 month
D. Cardiac catheterization at age 2
387- Child was brought to the hospital after the teacher suspected hearing loss. Otoscopy showed an intact tympanic
membrane with fluid behind it, and the child had no fever or pain. Mild hearing loss was confirmed. What is the most
appropriate management?
A. Amoxicillin for 10 days
B. Observation for 3 months
C. Immediate referral for grommet tube
Q: School-aged child presents with hearing difficulties noticed by the teacher. On examination, there is fluid in the
middle ear and mild decrease in hearing. What is the initial management?
A. Amoxicillin for 10 days
B. Immediate referral for grommet tube
C. Wait 3 months and follow-up
● If a child has OME and mild hearing loss, no acute infection, the initial step is always observation.
● Only persistent OME (>3 months) with hearing loss or functional problems → refer for grommets.
● Antibiotics are not used for asymptomatic OME.
● American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), 2016
○ Rosenfeld RM, Shin JJ, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical Practice Guideline: Otitis Media with Effusion. Pediatrics. 2016;137(1):e20160203.
○ Key points:
■ Observation for up to 3 months is recommended for children with OME and mild hearing loss (<30 dB).
■ Antibiotics are not recommended for OME without acute infection.
■ Tympanostomy tubes (grommets) are indicated only if OME persists ≥3 months with hearing loss or functional deficits.
● NICE Guideline [NG91], 2016 – Otitis Media with Effusion in Children
○ NICE. Otitis media with effusion in under 12s: diagnosis and management.
○ Recommends:
■ Watchful waiting for 3 months if OME is asymptomatic or only mild hearing loss.
■ Referral for grommets if OME persists with hearing loss or developmental issues.
■ No routine antibiotics for OME without infection.
● UpToDate – Otitis Media with Effusion in Children
○ Echoes the same recommendations: initial observation, grommets if persistent ≥3 months with hearing loss, and antibiotics not indicated.
388- A 5-year-old child has *persistent* otitis media with effusion and conductive hearing loss. The hearing problem was
first noticed by the teacher. Otoscopic exam shows a retracted tympanic membrane. What is the most appropriate next
step in management?
A. Follow-up in 3 months
B. Insertion of tympanostomy tubes (grommets)
??
Q: 5 y old with persistent otitis media with effusion and conductive hearing loss is for surgical consideration?
A. Masteidectomy
B. Adenoidectomy alone
C. Myringotomy alone

D. Insertion of tympanostomy tubes (grommet)
Answer: D
Q: 5 years old child with persistent otitis media with effusion and conductive hearing loss is for surgical consideration?
A- Masteidectomy
B- Adenoidectomy alone
C- Myringotomy alone
D- Insertion of tympanostomy tubes (grommet)
1. American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Clinical Practice Guideline: Otitis Media with Effusion
○ Rosenfeld RM, Shin JJ, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical Practice Guideline: Otitis Media with Effusion. Pediatrics. 2016;137(1):e20160203.
○ Key points: Tympanostomy tubes are indicated in children ≥3 months with OME and documented hearing loss or educational/behavioral impact.
2. NICE Guideline [NG91] – Otitis Media with Effusion in Under 12s (UK)
○ NICE. Otitis media with effusion in under 12s: diagnosis and management. 2016.
○ Recommends hearing assessment and considering grommet insertion if OME persists ≥3 months with hearing loss or developmental impact.
3. UpToDate: Otitis Media with Effusion in Children
○ Provides similar recommendations: persistent OME with documented hearing loss or functional impact → tympanostomy tubes.
389- A child presents with reduced tympanic membrane movement, and the school report notes decreased hearing.
What is the most appropriate initial management?
A) Nasal decongestants and antihistamines
B) Amoxicillin
C) Refer for audiology assessment
D) Insert tympanostomy tubes
390-
✅
A
A macrosomic baby (large baby, often due to maternal diabetes) who has a weak or absent Moro reflex suggests birth trauma, most commonly Brachial Plexus Injury such as Erb’s Palsy.This usually happens after shoulder
dystocia during delivery of a large baby.
Next step Initial management is conservative:
● Immobilization of the affected arm.
● Supportive management.
● Followed later by physiotherapy.

Surgery is only considered later (3–6 months) if there is no recovery.✅Correct answer: 1. Immobilization and supportive management
391- Mother came with her child confirmed with chicken pox and show you her photo with sure rash
A. give her vaccine
B. give her immunoglobulin ??
C. postpone vaccine 2 months
392- Mother Visited pediatric clinic before and confirmed diagnosis of chickenpox; the mother showed the doctor a
picture of rash typically for varicella (infected before). Question was about varicella vaccine:
A. Varicella vaccine withheld ?
B. Postpone until the child is 2 years (or give after 2 years, could not remember)
C. Give the varicella vaccine
D. Give varicella and immunoglobulins
393- 18 month old, routine immunization, mother admitted that the child got varicella infection 2 months back, and
showed the doctor picture of the rash, and rash was typical to varicella (didn’t provide the picture, that what the
scenario said)
A. Varicella vaccine withheld
B. Postpone until the child is 2 years ( or give after 2 years, could not remember)
C. Give the varicella vaccine
D. Give varicella and immunoglobulins
394- A 5-month-old child whose 6-year-old brother has measles (the symptoms are not written, but the diagnosis is
included). The question states that they spent a lot of time together. In short, the 6-year-old has symptoms, but the
5-month-old has no symptoms yet. The question asks: what would you give to the 5-month-old?
A- Immunoglobulin
B- MMR vaccine
C- Nothing since he’s under 6 months and doesn’t need it
D- Measles drug something like that measles something
395- Neonate with grunting , cyanosis For 30minutes
A. Ttn
B. Mas
C. Rds ??
Q: A 3-day-old baby boy born by cesarean section develops grunting, chest retractions, and mild bluish discoloration of
the lips. On examination, he is tachypneic. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) ??
B. Respiratory distress syndrome
Q:

Q: 3 day old delivered by CS , SOB , perioral cyanosis?
A. TTN
B. RDS
396- A 64-year-old man presented to Emergency Room with symptoms of dyspnoea, SOB, and palpitation. He is a
known case of diabetic mellitus, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. He is smoker with history of stroke. On
examination, found to have irregular pulse. Cardiac and chest examination showed high JVP, S3 and bi-basal crackles.
Atrial fibrillation on ECG. Blood pressure 150/90 mmH Heart rate 144 /min Oxygen saturation 89 % What is the
CHADS2 score of this patient?
A. 2
B. 3
C. 4
✅
D. 5 MG
● CHF: Yes → S3, crackles, high JVP → 1 point
● Hypertension: Yes → 1 point
● Age ≥75: No (64 y) → 0 points
● Diabetes mellitus: Yes → 1 point
● Stroke history: Yes → 2 points

397- A 64-year-old man presented to Emergency Room with symptoms of dyspnoea, SOB, and palpita(cid:0)on. He is a
known case of diabe(cid:0)c mellitus, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. He is smoker with history of stroke. On
examina(cid:0)on, found to have irregular pulse. fibrilla(cid:0)on on ECG.
Blood pressure 150/90 mmH Heart rate 144 /min Oxygen satura(cid:0)on 89 % What is the CHADS2 score of this pa(cid:0)ent?
A. 2
B. 3
C. 4
D. 5
Same above Q
398- A 17-year-old primigravida presents to the clinic for the first time after missing her period, with a positive home
pregnancy test. Her last menstrual period was 5 weeks ago. Pelvic examination reveals a closed cervical os with no
bleeding (see report). Transvaginal Ultrasound: An intrauterine gestational sac with no embryonic heartbeat. Which of
the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Inevitable miscarriage
B. Threatened miscarriage
C. Pregnancy of unknown location
D. Intrauterine pregnancy of uncertain viability
399- A Pregnant 17 week female came with goiter and neck mass , TSH was high ,T4 low, afraid that her baby become
mentally retarded, what’s the management?
A. Thyroxine
B. Carbimazole
C. Surgical
D. Radioiodine
Q:

400- Pediatric age (9 y not sure) brought by his family because of nocturnal enuresis the issue is he has weight loss and
polyuria ( thirst ) What to do ?
A- Random glucose
B- Urine culture
401- Pediatric age (9 y not sure) brought by his family because of nocturnal enuresis What to do ?
A- FASTING glucose ؟؟
B- Urine Analysis ؟؟
402- A child presents with vomiting and diarrhea about seven times a day, very dry skin and mucous membranes,
sunken eyes, delayed capillary refill 4 seconds, lethargy, and blood pressure 75/43 mmHg. What type of dehydration
does this child have?
A) Mild dehydration
B) Moderate dehydration
C) Hypovolemic shock
D) No dehydration
Q: A child presents with vomiting and diarrhea about seven times a day, has very dry
skin and mucous membranes, sunken eyes, delayed capillary refill of 4 seconds,
lethargy, and hypotension, What type of dehydration does this child have?
A. Mild dehydration
B. Moderate dehydration
C. Hypovolemic shock
D. No dehydration
Answer: C. Hypovolemic shock
403- Baby delayed separation of umbilical cords and bleeding from umbilical stump. Labs of coagulation
A- hemophilia A
B- Von wellibrand disease
C- vit K deficiency
D- Thrombocytopenia
Q: A newborn presented with bleeding from the umbilical stump. Labs showed prolonged PT and aPTT and normal
platelet count. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hemophilia A
B. Von Willebrand disease
C. Vitamin K deficiency
404- A physician was working on a research paper. Before publishing the paper, he made some changes to some of the
data and omitted other parts of his results. What is this action referred to?
A) Falsification

B) Fabrication
C) Plagiarism
405- Elderly patient k/c of DM and HTN and post MI he is on multiple med ( important is MAX DOSE OF
ATORVASTATIN) present to clinic for regular follow up His LDL was 4.2 can’t remember HDL sorry What would you
add?
A. No change
B. Ezetimibe
406- 55 yo male hx of inferior Mi (on aspirin, ect..) and max dose of atrouvstatin came to f/u lipid profile results HDL 1.3
N LDL 4.? (High)
A. Add Ezetimibe
B. Add Evolocumab
407- 26-year-old woman, her menarche was at the age of 15 years. Her last cycle was 9 months ago (see lab results).
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? Gameboy Hidden Labs: - labs showed high FSH (50) and normal LH
(37)
A. Ovarian tumor
B. Asherman's syndrome
C. Premature ovarian insufficiency
D. Polycystic ovarian syndrome
408- pt after mvc come with low bp and maybe tachycardia what is initial step
A. iv fluid intervention (like this i dont remember)
B. vasopressor
409- 52 years come from holiday he was abroad, diagnosed with pneumonia and failed to respond to course of
amoxicillin . On admission he is complaining of cough, myalgia and abdominal pain, X-ray shows bilateral basal
opacities. His gcs dropped to 11. Temp 38.5 Oxygen 91 Na 118 Creatinine 180 Which of the following is the cause:
A- sarcoidosis
B- Legionella pneumonia
C- pulmonary embolism
D- ANCA associated vasculitis
410- A Child is 24 months, doesn't respond to his name does not talk yet, no eye contact, plays alone. Mother noticed he
arranges toys in a straight line
A. Screen autism
B. Hearing test
C. Refer speech therapy
411- A 44-year-old woman presented with heavy vaginal bleeding (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Mefenamic acid
C. Insert hormonal IUD

D. Dilatation and curettage
✅
GB D
412- A 2 month old his mother mentioned noticed his right eye goes inward while feeding, she’s concerned, what’s the
most initial management? I Am Not Sure If Same Recall Or Not , But It Had Normal Red Reflex & Corneal Reflex
A- CT
B- Urgent referral for ophthalmology
C- Reassure
413- A 6 month old pediatric came with convergence and esotropia and during exam Intact corneal light reflex The
parents are concerned what should you do?
A- Reassure
B- Refer to ophthalmology
● Infant <6 months with intermittent esotropia + normal corneal reflex → normal, reassure
● Persistent/constant deviation after 6 months → refer.
414- A 30-year-old woman at 6 weeks gestation is receiving methotrexate treatment for an ectopic pregnancy. The first
dose of methotrexate 50 mg/m IM was administered one week ago. The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels on
days 1, 4, and 7 were as follows:
Day 1: 1000 mlU/mL Day 4: 1200 mlU/mL Day 7: 800 mlU/mL Which of the following is the most appropriate next step
in management?
A. Repeat beta-hCG in 1 week
B. Perform immediate surgical intervention
C. Administer a second dose of methotrexate
D. Admit for multiple methotrexate regimen
415- A 30-year-old woman at 6 weeks gestation is receiving methotrexate treatment for an ectopic pregnancy. The first
dose of methotrexate 50 mg/m IM was administered one week ago. The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels on
days 1, 4, and 7 were as follows: Day 1: 1000 mlU/mL Day 4: 1200 mlU/mL Day 7: 500 mlU/mL Which of the following is
the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Repeat beta-hCG in 1 week
B. Perform immediate surgical intervention
C. Administer a second dose of methotrexate
D. Admit for multiple methotrexate regimen
416- Patient delivered with epidural anesthesia, after 1 week she presented to ED with low back pain with lower paresis
and bowel dysfunction, it was abscess. What to do?
A- Surgical drainage
B- Needle aspiration

Q: 26 years old primigravida presented 10 days after vaginal delivery complaining of fever and back pain. On
examination, lower back tenderness lower limb weakness, and incontinence. Diagnosis of spinal epidural abscess was
made. Most appropriate management?
A. Antibiotic
B. Surgical drainage
C. Needle aspiration
D. Neurological observation
417- A 4-year-old girl was bitten by a newly adopted cat. The cat is febrile and lethargic. There is no redness at the bite
site. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Reassure
B. Give prophylactic antibiotics
C. Irrigate wound [ONLY]
D. Give rabies immunoglobulin and vaccine
A patient was bitten by a bat , what is the most likely infection?
A. Rabies
B. Tetanus
Answer: A. Rabies
418- A 4-year-old girl was bitten by a newly adopted cat. The cat is febrile and lethargic. There is no redness at the bite
site. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Reassure
B. Give prophylactic antibiotics
C. Irrigate wound
D. Give rabies immunoglobulin and vaccine
Q: A 4-year-old girl was bitten by a newly adopted cat. The cat is febrile and lethargic. There is no rdness at the bite site.
<br>What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Reassurance
B. Rabies vaccine
C. Rabies immunoglobulin
D. Rabies immunoglobulin and vaccine
NOTE: 100% sure about the case and options
NO irrigate wound as a choice
419- A case of a 45 year-old female patient of 35 weeks gestational age. Scheduled for C/S. Taking her pregnancy
vitamins. Her BMI is 31. No risk of VTE mentioned. What should be her VTE prophylaxis?
A. Enoxaparin and compression socks
B. Continue her vitamins and no prophylaxis needed
C. Early ambulation
D. Antiplatelets with aspirin

420- A 42-year-old woman involved in a head on collision arrived at the Emergency Room talking coherently, with the
following vital signs. Her examination revealed equal air entry bilaterally with ecchymosis on her anterior chest wall,
distended neck veins and her abdomen is soft and lax. Blood pressure 90/60 mmH, Heart rate 130/min, Respiratory rate
18/min Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Cardiac tamponade
B. Cardiac contusion
C. Massive hemothorax
D. Bilateral tension pneumothorax
Q: A patient presented to the ED after he was stabbed in his chest.
Upon examination he had hypotension, tachycardia, muffled heart sounds, and distended neck veins. Lungs
were clear
bilaterally. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Myocardial contusion
B. Hemothorax
C. Tension pneumothorax
D. Cardiac tamponade
Answer: D. Cardiac tamponade
421- A 2-years old child develops tonic-clonic convulsions for 3 minutes, he is drowsy but responsive. Temperature of 39 ,
sore throat and runny nose, parents reported no past medical history, positive family history of febrile convulsions.
Parents asking for consultation?
A- Reassurance, and find the source of fever
B- Start prophylactic anti epileptic medicine
C- Perform urgent CT brain
D- Perform urgent EEG
422- A 10 years old girl, came to the ED after transient loss of consciousness with falling while she was running. She is
healthy with no chronic illnesses. Examination unremarkable except ejection systolic murmur. What should you do ?
A. Reassurance
B. Electrolytes .
C. Echocardiogram
D. Electrocardiogram
Next ➔ D. Electrocardiogram
Most Appropriate ➔ C. Echocardiogram
423- A child who lives with his grandfather known to be tuberculosis (TB) positive presents With fever and weight loss.
His purified protein derivative (PPD) test is positive, and chest X-ray reveals right upper lobe consolidation. What is the
most appropriate treatment regimen?
A. Rifampicin for 6 months

B. Isoniazid and rifampicin for 3 months
C. INH, rifampicin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide for 2 months, then INH and rifampicin for 4 months
424- Calculate the odds ratio (OR) for the association between cesarean section (CS) and type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM).
Case: vaginal delivery 120 ,CS 80 Control: vaginal delivery 40, CS 160
A- 2.5
B- 4
C- 5
D- 6
Q: A case-control study was conducted to evaluate the association between cesarean section (CS) and
type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Among the cases (patients with T1DM), 80 were delivered by
cesarean section and 120 by vaginal delivery. Among the controls (without T1DM), 160 were
delivered by cesarean section and 40 by vaginal delivery. What is the odds ratio (OR) for the
association between cesarean section and type 1 diabetes?
A- 2.5
B- 4
C- 5
D- 6
425- A 50-year-old man known to have chronic viral hepatitis presented with ascites and was found to have a high serum
ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) of more than 1.1. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Pancreatitis
B. Tuberculosis
C. Liver cirrhosis
D. Nephrotic Syndrome
426- A 32-Year-Old Man Came To The Clinic For A Follow-Up Visit. He Is Diagnosed Of Ileocolonic Crohn’s Disease
Started On Steroids And Pentasa For 3 Months. He Noticed Perineal Pain And Discharges For 3 Weeks Duration. His
Abdominal Symptoms Are Well Controlled With No Abdominal Pain Or Diarrhea. Examination Was Normal Apart
From 2 Perianal Fistula Were Seen. RBC 4 4.7–6.1 × 10¹²/L (Male) Hb 11 130–170 g/L (Male) Platelets Count 421
150–400 × 10⁹/L WBC 7 4.5–10.5 × 10⁹/L ESR 36 2–10 mm/h (Male) MRI Pelvis: Confirmed The Presence Of Perianal
Fistulae. Which Of The Following Is The Best Next Step In Management?
A. Methotrexate
B. Azathioprine
C. Budesonide
D. Infliximab
427- Patient with cystic fibrosis abdominal pain after eating food with high fat and protein. What’s the appropriate diet
?
A- Pancreatic enzymes replacement
B- No carbs eating
C- Just Multi vitamins
D- Decrease fat

Q: Parents gave high protein and high fat diet for him to gain weight but without improvement
Sorry i forgot the main complain is increasing foul smelling u know steatorrhea and stuff of CF
A. start pancreatic enzymes therapy
B. Multivitamis only
C. High fiber low fats or proteins ﮫﻔﺳا ﺎﻣ ةﺮﻛﺬﺘﻣ)ichoosed it)
D. Low calorie diet
Regarding this question they also mentioned he was on 20 something percentile
And now deteriorating
Also mention clear chest
428- A 16 y/o found out that she is pregnant and decided to terminate pregnancy due to financial problems and she is
afraid her educational plan will be affected, she ask about information for abortion which was against doctor idea
A. Respect her decision and provide unbiased information
B. Do not provide information because of the doctor personnel opinion
C. The doctor should not provide anything as this is illegal and may cause illegal issues
D. Report her to the authorities because it is illegal
Q: patient with severe preeclampsia , doctor recommended to terminate pregnancy, both parent refused , how to
manage?
A. refer to another doctor
B.respect their wishes to continue pregnancy
C.to be reviewed by ethical committee then decide
D. ignore their wishes
429- Known case of DM, HTN with 6 months history of impairment of extraocular muscles, nystagmus, ataxia,
dysarthria What is the affected area?
A. Basilar artery
B. Anterior Cerebral
C. Middle Cerebral
D. Posterior Cerebral
Answer: A
Q: A patient presents with the following neurological findings Extraocular movement (EOM) weakness, Vertical
nystagmus, Reactive miosis, Dysarthria and Ataxia Where is the most likely lesion?
A. Basilar artery
B. Anterior cerebral artery
C. Middle cerebral artery
D. Posterior cerebral artery
430- a 5-month-old infant presents with a 10-day history of cough and episodes of cyanosis, accompanied by
post-tussive vomiting. Laboratory results show a × white blood cell count of 27 L with 80% lymphocytes. Which
of the following is the most appropriate management
A. Azithromycin
B. Ceftriaxone
C. Nebulized salbutamol
D. Corticosteroid
Answer: A

431- A 24-week pregnant woman presents with exertional dyspnea. She is otherwise healthy, and systemic
examination is unremarkable. Ultrasound shows monochorionic twin pregnancy with evidence of twin- to twin
transfusion syndrome (TTTS). What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Termination of pregnancy
B. Expectant management with observation only
C. Laser photocoagulation of placental vascular anastomoses
D. Cesarean section
Answer: C
432- Newly married women came to preconception clinic, know hx of chronic HTN controlled with lifestyle
modification, want to conceive in the next few months Her BP 150/95 What appropriate step (sth like this not
sure)?
A-Continue lifestyle modification
B-Give aspirin to prevent pre eclampsia
C-Start antihypertensive treatment to control BO before conception
D-Postpone pregnancy until BP level stabilized
Answer: C
433- 26 y.o man with history of fatigue for one month. He was diagnosed with AML 5Ma, and one day before starting
chemotherapy, he had high grade fever. Labs show WBC 3 (low), neutrophils 0.2% (low), Hgb 6 (low), platelet 100
(low) What is the best medication to start with?
A. Floroquinolone
B. Granulocyte stimulating factor
C. Extended spectrum penicillin
D. Third generation cephalosporin
Answer: C
434- Patient in labor, everything normal GA 33 , head felt in vagina (didn't mention +2 or less)
A- Forceps
B- Ventouse
C- CS
D- Fetal sampling
Answer: A
435- 50yrs male 24 hrs post B cell lymphoma chemotherapy developed neusea, vomit, …. Labs: Na normal K6
Calcium Low Phosphate High Urea 570 What can prevent this presentation
A. Thiazide
B. Allpurilol
C. Furosmide
D. Dont remember
Answer: B
Q: 50 yo male newly diagnosed with [[[BULKI]]] diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) , came to ER c/o N&V,
decreased urine output for 24 h after first cycle of chemotherapy (R CHOP) K 6 Po4- 3 Ca 1.2 UA 570 What is
the drug that help in prevent such presentation?
Thiazide
Allopurinol
Prednisone
Furosemide
Q: 50 yo male newly diagnosed with [[[[BULKY]]]] diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), came to ER c/o N& V,
decreased urine output for 24 h after first cycle of chemotherapy (R CHOP) K 6 P04-3 Ca 1.2 UA 570 What is the
drug that help in prevent such presentation?
Thiazide
Allopurinol

Rasburicase
Furosemide
436- A 22 years old woman with a history of multiple sexual transmitted diseases presented at the 37th
gestational week for her first antenatal visit. The obstetrician is concerned about this maternal infection which
may cause conjunctivitis and blindness In the newborn. Which of the following is the most suitable for health
promotion and illness prevention?
A- Reassurance
B- Azithromycin administration
C- Newborn screening after delivery
D- Referral to infectious disease clinic
Answer: B
437- A 4 months old child comes with right ear pain, with redness and loss of light reflex in otoscopy. Mother
asks how to prevent it from occurring again?
A. exclusive breastfeeding
B. Use of pacifier
C. Daily prophylactic antibiotics
438- A Junior doctor in a private hospital notices senior doctor manipulating documentation and doing unnecessary
procedures for money. Junior reports him, issue subsides. Now senior gives junior an alarming letter — What to
do?
A- Go silent, avoid confrontation
B- Go to senior directly
C- Document the misconduct to preserve your legal rights
Answer: C
439- COPD patient came with SOB for few months, NYHA2, liver enzymes slightly elevated OE, JVD, Wheezing, LLE,
Ascites, loud S2, Prominent a wave. What is the diagnosis?
A- Left ventricular failure
B- Right ventricular failureC- Chronic liver disease
Answer: B
440- A 23 year old woman with 4 month diarrhea, passing mucus with anemia and having family history of colon
cancer her father at 60 year old came with abdominal pain relieving by defecation. ESR normal. What is the
diagnosis ?
A- Irritable bowel syndrome
B- Colon cancer
C- Ulcerative colitis
D- Gastroenteritis
Answer: A
Q: A 23-year-old woman presents with 4 months history of diarrhea with mucus in stool and anemia. Family history:
Father had colon cancer at age 60 Symptoms: Abdominal pain relieved by defecation Laboratory: ESR: Normal What
is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Irritable bowel syndrome
B. Colon cancer

C. Ulcerative colitis
D. Gastroenteritis
441- 45 yr old Female patient with PCOS as king about what is her high risk for developing endometrial cancer:
A- Age
B- PCO
C- multiparty
Answer: B
442- A 18 months old presenting with progressive pallor, SOB, fatigue and dactylitis. Labs showed Hb 70, high
reticulocyte.
What is the confirmatory diagnostic test?
A- Direct coomb test
B- Hemoglobin electrophoresis
C- Osmotic fragility test
D- LDH
Answer: B
443- 62-Year-Old Woman With Atrial Fibrillation On Warfarin Develops A Subdural Hematoma. Her INR = 3.9, And
She Has Already Received Vitamin K. The Hematoma Requires Urgent Surgical Evacuation.
What Is The Most Appropriate Next Step In Management?
A. Restart Warfarin
B. Fresh Frozen Plasma (FFP)
C. Activated Factor VII (rFVIa)
D. 4-Factor Prothrombin Complex Concentrate (PCC)
Answer: D
.
444- A newborn presents with microcephaly and a distended abdomen. Physical examination reveals
hepatosplenomegaly. Natal history is significant for maternal diabetes. Laboratory investigations show
pancytopenia and elevated AST/ALT levels. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Chromosomal analysis
B. Congenital infection screening
C. Abdominal ultrasound
D. CT abdomen
Answer: B

445- Pt diabetic and hypertensive ‹ came to the diabetic clinic for follow up, he is DM and HTN is well controlled,
HA1c: 7.2 ( not 100% sure ) but he admitted that he missed multiple appointments last year, his doctor is worried
What medical value the doctor trying to achieve ?
A - Efficiency
B- Timeliness
C- Patient centredness
Answer: C
446- Ptn with non-hodgkin lymphoma and he passed away before going through chemotherapy by 1 week will he
died before his chemotherapy session and he is known case of uncontrolled DM2 for 20 years and HTN. Labs:
high uric acid, high potassium What's the cause of his death? A-Drug induced nephropathy
B-Tumor lysis syndrome
C-Undiscovered renal failure
D-Renal tubular acidosis
Answer: B
447- Known case of DM, HTN with 6 months history of impairment of extraocular muscles, nystagmus, ataxia,
dysarthria What is the affected area? A. Basilar artery
B. Anterior Cerebral
C. Middle Cerebral
D. Posterior Cerebral
Answer: A
448- 3 years old boy came to the clinic with poor weight gain . Over the past 4 months has loose diarrhea and
intermittent abdominal pain. Physical examination and vital signs is normal. His weight on 3rd percentile and his
height on 15th percentile. In the past year his weight was 36th percentile. His Abdomen is distended, non tender
and normal bowel sounds Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A) Blood gas
B) CBC
C) Tissue Transglutaminase IgA
D) Genetic test
Answer: C
449- Pregnant presented with severe abdominal pain and moderate vaginal bleeding. 33 gestational week, she was
hypotensive, ctg is reassurance, her bleeding did not stopped since admission. Which of the following is the
most appropriate management?
A. blood transfusion
B. induction of labor
C. give dexa and observe
D. immediate CS after one dose of dexa
Answer: D

Q: 33 wks GA Pregnant presented with moderate vaginal bleeding, she was hypotensive (SBP 60) and high HR.
450- Post menopause with a family history of ovarian cancer comes for screening for ovarian cancer What do you
do for her?
A. Pelvic US
B. CA125
C. Counseling and ask about ovarian cancer symptoms
Answer: C
Q: A 55-year-old postmenopausal woman with a family history of ovarian cancer presents for evaluation and
screening. She is currently asymptomatic and has no known genetic testing. What is the most appropriate next
step in her management?
A. Pelvic ultrasound
B. CA-125
C. Counseling and ask about ovarian cancer symptoms
D. Carcinoembryonic antigen
451- A pregnant lady at 26weeks, she cannot feel fetal movement anymore. US showed : IUFD at age of 24 weeks
Best management:
A- IV oxytocin
B- C section
C- misoprostol
D- dilation and curettage
Answer: C

452- An elderly patient presents with exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, and signs of heart failure. Echocardiography
shows concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with a normal ejection fraction (60%). What is the most likely
diagnosis? A- Restrictive cardiomyopathy
B- Constrictive pericarditis
C- Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF)
D- dilated cardiomyopathy
Answer: C
453- Woman has long-standing right upper side pain. Imaging showed about 4 cm polypoid lesion. What is the best
management?
A. Cholecystectomy
B. Conservative management
454- A 35-year-old woman had abdominal ultrasound as part of screening for essen(cid:0)al hypertension. She has no
abdominal symptoms (see report). Ultrasound Abdomen: Gall bladder single polyp measures 0.6 cm, no stones, and
normal bile ducts. Which is the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Surgical consulta(cid:0)on
B. No further interven(cid:0)on
C. Check Liver func(cid:0)on test
D. Follow up ultrasound within 6 months
455- A 25-year-old man with type 1 diabetes mellitus on insulin therapy was found in the clinic waiting area drowsy and
excessively sweating. A quick measurement of blood glucose revealed a low level. Which of the following is the most
appropriate action to be taken?
A. Give fruit juice
B. Start IV 0.9% normal saline
C. Glucagon subcutaneously
D. IV 5% dextrose with normal saline
456- A 28-year-old man who recently joined military service and underwent excessive military training presents to the
Emergency Department with lightheadedness on standing, muscle cramping, and fatigue. Physical examination reveals
postural hypotension, otherwise unremarkable. A diagnosis of acute kidney injury due to hypovolemia is established.
Which of the following is the most expected laboratory abnormality?
A. Low urine osmolarity < 250 mosmol/L
B. Fractional excretion of sodium > 2%
C. Blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio is elevated > 20
D. Presence of dysmorphic red blood cell (RBC) and RBC cast
457- A 22-year-old man presents to Emergency Department with 4-days history of fever, headache and confusion. On
examina(cid:0)on, Kemig's sign is present (see lab results and reports). Temperature 39 °C Test Result Normal Values Cells
380 0-3 /pL Total protein (Men) 0.8 0.22-0.33 g/L Glucose 3.7 2.50-3.89 mmol/L CSF analysis: WBC differen(cid:0)al count:
5% neutrophil and 90% lymphocytes. CSF Culture: Pending. Which of the following is the most appropriate
intravenous treatment op(cid:0)on?
A. Ceftriaxone, vancomycin and steroid
B. Ceftriaxone and vancomycin

C. Ceftriaxone
D. Acyclovir
Q: year old came due to convulsive attack and decrease LOC. He had a fever and viral illness few days ago. Neurological
exam
is NORMAL except from decrease loc.
Csf clear, normal protein, lymphocytosis and low glucose. (Just “Low” , No Numbers)
Most appropriate management?
(No mention of any meningeal sign)
A-acyclovir
B-corticosteroid
C-cef and vanc
458- A 22-year-old man recently returned from Umrah, presents to Emergency Department with 1- day history of fever
and headache. Upon arrival to the Emergency Department, he started to have seizures on the right extremi(cid:0)es. On
examina(cid:0)on, posi(cid:0)ve Kering sign (see lab results and report). Temperature 39 °C Test Result Normal Values Cells 380
0-3 /pL Total protein (Men) 1.2 0.22-0.33 g/L CSF analysis: WBC differen(cid:0)al count: 87% neutrophils and 5%
lymphocytes. Which of the following is the most appropriate intravenous treatment op(cid:0)on?
A. Ce(cid:0)riaxone, vancomycin and steroid
B. Ce(cid:0)riaxone and vancomycin
C. Ce(cid:0)riaxone and IV acyclovir
D. Acyclovir and steroid
459- A 10-month-old infant presents with irritability during feeding and recurrent vomiting. Length and head
circumference are at the 25th percentile, while weight is below the 3rd percentile. The infant has two older siblings who
are healthy. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Organic failure to thrive
B. Non-organic failure to thrive
C. Chromosomal abnormality
D. Normal variation in growth
460- A 2-year-old child presents with cyanosis during crying and recurrent hospital admissions due to pneumonia.
Bronchoscopy reveals a 90% narrowing of the lower third of the trachea during expiration. After performing a
tracheostomy, what is the most appropriate next management?
A. Incentive spirometry
B. High-flow nasal cannula
C. Non-invasive ventilation
D. Negative pressure ventilation
461- A 2-year-old child presents with cyanosis during crying and recurrent hospital admissions due to pneumonia.
Bronchoscopy reveals a 90% narrowing of the lower third of the trachea during expiration. After performing a
tracheostomy, what is the most appropriate next management?
A. Incentive spirometry
B. High-flow nasal cannula
C. Non-invasive ventilation
D. Positive pressure ventilation

462- A 2-year-old child presents with increasing difficulty in breathing and a weak cough during a family gathering. The
child was previously healthy. On examination, the child is cyanotic with suprasternal and subcostal recessions. What is
the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Administer oxygen and order a chest X-ray
B. Give nebulized adrenaline
C. Encourage a strong cough
D. Perform five back slaps followed by five abdominal thrusts
463- A 3-year-old child presents with fever, shortness of breath, and cough. On examination, the respiratory rate is 50
breaths per minute. Chest examination reveals crackles in the right lower lobe. What is the most sensitive clinical
finding suggestive of pneumonia in this child?
A. Fever
B. Shortness of breath
C. Cough
D. Increased respiratory rate
464- 6 years old has bronchial asthma and complains of his acute asthma exacerbation. Which of the following is
important for prevention of his exacerbation?
A. Advance asthma tips
B. Environmental control
C. Patient Skills using spacers
D. Patient Skills using peak flow rate
465- An 8-year-old with poorly controlled asthma despite using an inhaler presents to the ED with a severe attack. He is
not compliant with his medication and misses the inhaler 2–3 times per week. His family has two cats, and his room has
good airconditioning. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Oral corticosteroids
B. Leukotriene
C. Inhaled steroid
D. Control environment
466- A 10-year-old child presents with severe asthma exacerbation. He uses an inhaler twice daily (unspecified), has two
cats at home, and has poor compliance with his medications. His room is well-ventilated. Asking what is the most
important factor in managing this patient?
A. Low Dose corticosteroids
B. Leukotriene
C. Inhaled steroid
D. Control environment
467- Patient have sle symptoms (did not mention diagnosis directly)with seizures and confusion (CNS SYMPTOMS)
received methylprednisone what additional drug should she receive?
A. Azathioprine
B. Hydroxychloroquine
C. Cyclophosphamide

D. Methotrexate
Better recall: 11 years girl came to evaluation of fatigue for the last month, she has history of joint pain in knees and
hands, malar rash and photosensitivity. After that came to ER complaining of headache, confusion and generalized
tonic-clonic seizure. Initiated on iv methylprednisolone and positive for anti-dsDna. Labs: Normal creatinine Normal
urine Decreased C3 and C4 Negative ANA Which of the following drug should be added:
A- Rituximab
B- cyclophosphamide
C- hydoxychloroquine
D- mycophenolate
468- Patient came to outpatient clinic today he mentioned he had an RTA 1 week ago and complaining of mild
abdominal pain after accident. O/E: Vitally stable. Mild abdominal pain mainly in the right upper quadrant. No other
complaints or findings. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Abdominal ultrasound
B. Refer him to emergency department for further evaluation
C. Do blood work to rule out hemorrhage
Q: Patient came to outpatient clinic today he mentioned he had an RTA 1 week ago and complaining of mild abdominal
pain after accident. O/E: Mild abdominal pain mainly in the right upper quadrant. No other complaints or findings.
What is the most appropriate next step? Vitals Mentioned In Numbers (It Was Large Table , All Vitals Were Within
Normal Range)
A. Abdominal ultrasound
B. Refer him to emergency department for further evaluation
C. Do blood work to rule out hemorrhage
469- 45-year-old patient who was incidentally found on ultrasound (US) to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA)
measuring 4.5 cm. What to do?
A. Immediate surgery
B. Follow-up with ultrasound
Q: 70 years old known HTN and smoker on routine check up found Aortic Aneurism 4.5 cm What is the management : ,
Follow up 6 months
Endovascular aneurism repair
Surgical repair
470- A Make patient has carotid artery stenosis 48% high-risk, old age, multiple comorbidities dyslipidemia and HTN,
slurred speech. What is the next step in management for this patient?
A- Observation
B- Carotid stent
C- Endarterectomy
471- 21-year-women presented to Emergency Room with right lower quadrant pain and anorexia. RLQ tenderness and
rebound tenderness WBC high. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Open Appendectomy
B. CT abdomen

C. Discharge
Q: An 8-year-old girl presented to the Emergency Room with severe abdominal pain for the last 6 hours. The pain
is constant and not relieved by acetaminophen. She cannot stand up straight because of the pain. Physical
Examinaion reveals a mild grade fever with severe abdominal tenderness over the right lower quadrant and
rebound tenderness
Which of the following imaging study is the most appropriate to conirm the diagnosis?
A. CT abdomen
B. US abdomen
C. MRI abdomen
D. Magneic resonance cholangiopancreatography
Q: pregnant lady with RLQ pain vomiting , tenderness and luckocytosis , appropriate treatment
A. CT Abdomen and US (In one option)
B. Discharge
C. Observe
D. IV Ab
472- old patient underwent laparotomy 4 days ago and post-operatively developed absent bowel sounds, abdominal
distension and can’t pass stool, no fever or high Wbc. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A- Laxative with early ambulation
B- NGT and IV fluids
C. Laparotomy
473- A 22-year-old woman was brought to the Emergency Room after ingesting 50 tablets of extra strength
acetaminophen (500 mg each tablet) 3 hours ago. The patient is conscious and oriented (see lab results). Which of the
following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Hemodialysis
B. N-acetylcysteine and charcoal
C. Close monitoring of liver function tests
D. Intubation and mechanical ventilation
Q: A 19-year-old male with known hepatitis B presents with bilateral knee pain for 2 days and has been extensively
taking
paracetamol.
Serology: HBsAb negative, HBsAg positive, HBeAg negative, HBc IgG positive
Labs: AST >2000, ALT >1000, Bilirubin 27 (normal 5.1–17.0), INR 2.something
What is the most appropriate treatment?
A. IV corticosteroid
B. N-Acetylcysteine
C. Entecavir to treat acute hepatitis B
D. Plasmapheresis with Penicillamine

Answer: N-Acetylcysteine
474- 70-year-old man known to have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). examination revealed evidence of
cor pulmonale with a significant degree of lower limb edema. His FEV1 is 40% (see lab result). Which of the following
interventions is most associated with increased survival?
A- Heart-lung transplant
B- Corticosteroid therapy
C- Pulmonary rehabilitation
D- Long-term oxygen therapy
475- A Hypertensive man On Aspirin came with a bright red spot in his eye, he denied pain, visual changes, no signs of
infection, what’s the most likely diagnosis?
A- Conjunctivitis
B- Scleritis
C- Episcleritis
D- Subconjunctival hemorrhage
476- Diabetic pt with 6 months history of bilateral pain in PIP and MCP joints, also complains of dry eyes, investigations
had high ESR and high CRP and (-ve) AntiSSA, asking about diagnosis?
A. Rheumatoid arthritis
B. Sjogren syndrome
C. Diabetic cheiroarthropathy
D. Osteoarthritis
477- A patient presents with periorbital eye swelling, hematuria, and hypertension. He had a sore throat 3 weeks ago.
ASO titre: positive What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Membranous nephropathy
B- IgA nephropathy
C- Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis
478- A study of colon cancer in a population of 100,000. Existing cases: 300, New cases: 75. What is the cumulative
prevalence?
A. 0.375%
B. 0.45%
C. 0.375 per 1000
D. 0.45 per 1000

479- 39 weeks i think she is not primigravida, her cervix is 4 cm dilated with strong and regular contraction, after 4
hours the cervix dilated to 5 cm, fully effaced cervix ( if you calculate the bishop score it would be favorable ) What is the
management?
A-CS
B-Oxytocin “not sure”
C-amniotomy
D-Reasses after 2 hours
480- 39 weeks i think she is not primigravida, her cervix is 4 cm dilated with strong and regular contraction, after 2
hours the cervix dilated to 5 cm, fully effaced cervix ( if you calculate the bishop score it would be favorable ) What is the
management?
A-CS
B-Oxytocin “not sure”
C-amniotomy
D-Reasses after 2 hours
481- A 22-year-old primigravida woman at 38 weeks gesta+on is in ac+ve labor for 4 hours. Cervical dilataAon is 5 cm,
+1 staAon. ExaminaAon 5 hours later demonstrates no change compared to the previous findings. Contrac+ons occur
every 3 minutes and lasts 60 seconds. Fetal hear rate is of category 1 cardiotocograph. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step?
A. IV oxytocin
B. Cesarean secAon
C. Review in 2 hours
D. Instrumental delivery
482- 60 Y/O female, had large amount of Maroon-colored stool, she is pale and tachycardic, continued to bleed despite
good resuscitation, abdomen is lax and soft and non tender, what is the initial management?
A. NGT
B. Angiography

C. Colonoscopy
D. Barium enema
483- 60 Y/O female, had large amount of Maroon-colored stool, she is pale and tachycardic, continued to bleed despite
good resuscitation, abdomen is lax and soft and non tender, what is the Most Appropriate Management?
A. NGT
B. Angiography
C. Colonoscopy
D. Barium enema
484- Old women presented with lower gi bleeding on examination diffusely tender abdomen pr exam showing fresh
blood patient is unstable despite receiving blood (BP Was Not Mentioned, Just Unstable). What is the most appropriate
Next Step In Management:
A. Give FFP
B. Angiography
C. Laparotomy
D. Emergency colonoscopy
485- 35 weeks gestation, abdomen fundal examination corresponds to 30 cm. Ruptured membrane for 6h , she is stable ,
no Uterine contractions Upon vaginal examination , meconium stained liquor found
A. Induction of labor
B. CS
C. Induction of labor + prophylactic Abx
D. Prophylactic Abx and observation for spontaneous delivery
486- 35 weeks gestation, abdomen fundal examination corresponds to 30 cm. Ruptured membrane for 16h , she is stable ,
no Uterine contractions Upon vaginal examination , meconium stained liquor found
A. Induction of labor
B. CS
C. Induction of labor + prophylactic Abx
D. Prophylactic Abx and observation for spontaneous delivery
487- child was diagnosed with acute glomerulonephritis, and the parents are asking, When does the C3 level return to
normal?
A- 1 to 2 weeks
B- 3 to 4 weeks
C- 6 to 8 MONTHS
488- child was diagnosed with acute glomerulonephritis, and the parents are asking, When does the C3 level return to
normal?
A- 1 to 2 weeks
B- 3 to 4 weeks
C- 6 to 8 WEEKS
C??

Q: Probably Confirmed Recall (We Didn’t Find Her Mistake Yet):
child was diagnosed with acute glomerulonephritis, and the parents are asking,
When does the C3 level return to normal?
A- 1 to 2 weeks
B- 3 to 4 weeks
C- 6 to 8 WEEKS
Answer: C- 6 to 8 WEEKS
489- A 6-year-old boy has a severe respiratory infection and has not received any vaccines due to family concern. Which
vaccine would you recommend to decrease such complications in the future?
A/DTAP
B/OPV
C/PCV
490- 60 diagnosed AF ask about medication control ventricular rate:
A. Diltiazem
B. Digoxin
C. Metoprolol
D. Lisinopril
491- A Patient With Fatigue , Recurrent ureteric stones and bone pain Ca: 3.50 mmol Parathyroid adenoma: 2cm
parathyroid adenoma What's Most NEXT Appropriate Management?
The Recall Didn’t Mention: Polyurea , Polydypsia , CNS Symptoms (Only Mentioned Fatigue , No Lethargy Or
Confusion)
A. Bisphosphonate
B. Calcium Memetics
C. Increase calcium diet
D. Parathyroidectomy
492- A Patient With Fatigue , Recurrent ureteric stones and bone pain Ca: Not Known mmol Parathyroid adenoma:
2cm parathyroid adenoma What's Initial Next Step Management? The Recall Didn’t Mention: Polyurea , Polydypsia ,
CNS Symptoms (Only Mentioned Fatigue , No Lethargy Or Confusion)
Calcitonin (I Am 100% Sure It Was NOT Calcimemetics)
Bisphosphonate
Parathyroidectomy
493- A 55-year-old woman presents to the ER with nausea, confusion, and muscle weakness. She has a history of breast
cancer with bone metastases. Her serum calcium is 15.2 mg/dL (Normal: 8.5-10.5 mg/dL). Vitals: BP 130/80 mmHg, HR
90 bpm, no fever. What is the most appropriate initial management step?
A. Calcitonin
B. Surgery
C. Furosemide

D. Oral Bisphosphonates
494- A 37 weeks GA came to the labor room with PROM for 24 hours, how to prevent postpartum pelvic infection?
A- Vancomycin
B- Clindamycin
C- Clindamycin plus Gentamicin
D- Amoxicillin plus Metronidazole
495- Patient came with 12 hours of history of lower limb weakness, all vitals within normal range. Coagulation profile is
normal and platelet normal (I missed numbers) Imaging showed: small to moderate ischemic core, proximal anterior
circulation occlusion. What's the most appropriate management?
A. tPA
B. Mechanical Embolectomy ??
C. tPA and embolectomy
D. Observe
496- Patient came with 12 hours of history of lower limb weakness That Has Resolved, all vitals within normal range.
Coagulation profile is normal and platelet normal (I missed numbers) Imaging showed: small to moderate ischemic core,
Proximal anterior circulation occlusion. What's the most appropriate management?
A. tPA
B. Mechanical Embolectomy ??
C. tPA and embolectomy
D. Observe ??
If weakness resolve = observe
If weakness not resolve = Embolectomy
497- new e-research study on the gastritis patient and the use of 2 different NSAIDs. The participation in the study will
be through an online interview. What is the ethical errors in there research?
A. Privacy will be invaded
B. Information gathering is not accurate
C. Informed consent cannot be monitored
D. Participant cannot get out of the interview

Q: Ethics case, e-research for 2 drugs and their affects on group of patients, Why the e-research not good for ethics? -
A. Patient can’t withdraw once participate
B. no privacy
C. Consent can not be monitored
498- 6 years child with panhypopituitarism. He is on multiple hormonal treatments. Initial evaluation revealed short
stature and delayed bone age. Other hormonal studies are normal. Alhomarni: No Labs Were Mentioned In The Recall ,
LITERALLY Just Like This (I Am The One Who Wrote It At 20 December)
A. Give Testosterone
B. Give hydrocortisone
C. Reassess Growth after 6 months
D. Give recombinant growth hormone
C/D??
499- 5 years old child found to have an abdominal mass and on his examination he had reduced air entry on multiple
sites. What's the most important test to assess his condition or the disease?
A. Nuclear study
B. Lung CT
C. Abdominal US
D. Abdominal X-ray
500- Female pt came with epigastric pain with nausea and vomiting. O/E tenderness of the epigastric region. (It was very
short Q no other predisposing factors or S&S) Amylase was high No other labs were mentioned. What will predict the
severity of her case (something like that)
A- Procalcitonin
B- ALT
C- CRP
D- ESR
501- Female pt came with epigastric pain with nausea and vomiting. O/E tenderness of the epigastric region. (It was very
short Q no other predisposing factors or S&S) Amylase was high No other labs were mentioned.
What will predict the severity of her case (something like that)
A- Procalcitonin
B- AST
C- CRP
D- ESR
C ???

502- Women diabetics on metformin controlled want to go to india for 10 day ?
A- Flu vaccine and avoid bite dengue
B- Yellow fever vaccine and antibiotics to prevent diarrhoea
C- Avoid highlands
D- Food safety and typhoid vaccine
503- Mild swelling and redness with increased pain and tenderness at the site of surgical wound Surgical
A. exploration
B. Discharge
C. IV antibiotics
D. Observation and wound culture
504- 50 years old male patient K/C of DM . He did open abdominal surgery. In the 3rd post-operative days, he develop
redness and swelling at the surgical site maybe tender swelling. Vitally stable (I think they mentioned no fever). What is
the best management?
A- surgical debridement
B- empiric IV antibiotic.
C- take surgical culture and observe
505- 50 years old male patient K/C of DM. He did open abdominal surgery. In the 3rd postoperative days, he develop
redness and swelling at the surgical site maybe tender swelling. Vitally stable (I think they mentioned no fever). What is
the best management?
A- Re-exploration
B- Empiric IV antibiotic.
C- Take culture and observe

506- A 55-year-old female in ICU known case of diverticulitis underwent hartman procedure, 2nd-day post-surgery
patient developed a decrease in urine output to 20 ml/hr, and central venous pressure was 10 with lower limb edema.
Other examinations were unremarkable, all vitals were stable, and normal blood pressure. What is the appropriate
management?
A. Re-exploration abdomen
B. Renal duplex US
C. Abdomen Ultrasound
D. CT abdomen with contrast
507- 60 yr old male underwent appendectomy, he presented 6 days post open appendectomy with red, swollen and
tender wound site. What’s the most appropriate (next step or management) ?
A- Open the wound
B- CT of the abdomen
C- US of the abdomen
D- Board spectrum antibiotics
508- 78-year-old male presented with change level of consciousness and fever, lumbar puncture was done showed CF
gram +ve bacilli catalase positive. How will you treat?
A- Ceftriaxone + Vancomycin + Steroid
B- Ceftriaxone + Ampicillin + Vancomycin
C- Ceftriaxone + Vancomycin + Ampicillin
D- Ampicillin
509- Female patient a case of colon cancer came for colectomy, she lost 10% of her weight in the last few months, she
have poor appetite, dietitian discovered she had low protein and caloric intake What is the best action?
A- Increase protein intake
B- Restrict fluid intake
C- TPN (total parenteral nutrition)
D- NG tube feeding
510- Pediatric patient presents with painless cervical lymphadenopathy measuring 2 cm for 2 week otherwise normal.
US done shows firm, non tender, mobile, 2 cm mass. What is the most appropriate management?
A- Wait 4-6 weeks

B- Fine-needle aspiration
C- Anti-Biotics
511- young Builder with reducable inguinal hernia reach scrotal asymptotic but concern about it
A. herniotomy
B. tension free mesh repair
C. herniorrhaphy
D. observe
Q: 32 years old male, came for a regular checkup.have a history of inguinal hernia for three years. Asymptomatic It's
reducible and did the the ring occlusion test or something like that) it was positive. What is the best next step?
A:Immediate Hernial repair
B:….+ Mesh repair
C: observation.
512- Child with mass in the abdomen in the left flank Ultrasound: Confirmed a mass with internal calcification What is
the Most Appropriate Next test to reach the diagnosis (The Examiner Confirmed The Stem Was Exactly Like This)
A. MRI
B. CT
C. refer for biopsy
Q: A 3 year old child comes with a large mass on his flank side that was found incidentally. The mass is hard, firm, and
not mobile. On xray xray نﺎﻛ ةﺪﻛﺎﺘﻣ it shows soft tissue mass with internal calcifications. What is the next step in to
establish the diagnosis?
A. MRI abdomen
B. CT abdomen
C. Biopsy of the mass
D. Bone marrow aspiration

513- Child with mass in the abdomen in the left flank Ultrasound: Confirmed a mass with internal calcification What is
the Most Appropriate test to reach the diagnosis (The Word "Next" Not Present , I Am SURE 100%)
A. MRI
B. CT
C. refer for biopsy
514- Child with mass in the abdomen in the left flank Ultrasound: Confirmed a mass with internal calcification What is
the Most Appropriate test to reach the diagnosis (The Word "Next" Not Present , I Am SURE 100%)
A. MRI
B. CT & Biopsy (Together In Same Option , 100% Sure)
515- A child with a 2 cm skin colored painless abdominal mass, otherwise normal. What is the Diagnostic test ? (Written
Exactly Like This) Calcifications Not Mentioned
A- Abdominal CT
B- Abdominal Biopsy
C- Abdominal US
D- MRI Abdomen
516- 3 years old came with huge palpable abdominal mass. How to CONFIRM the Diagnosis?
A. CT
B. US
C. Biopsy
517- A Doctor Has Been Practicing Internal Medicine For 10 Years, But He Knows That He Is Weak Regarding
Immunology. What Should He Do To Improve?
A. Ask His Colleagues
B. Read More Articles Regarding Immunology In His Free Time
C. Attend Conferences And Workshops
518- A Doctor Has Been Practicing Internal Medicine For 10 Years, But He Knows That He Is Weak Regarding
Immunology. What Should He Do To Be Updated About LATEST THERPAIES? (Something Like This)
A. Ask His Colleagues
B. Read More Articles Regarding Immunology In His Free Time
C. Attend Conferences And Workshops
519- A 42-year-old woman presented with pelvic pressure, bloating, and heaviness in the lower abdomen. Her cycle is
prolonged with heavy menstrual bleeding (see report). Ultrasound: Presence of uterine fibroid. Which of the following is
the most likely diagnosis?
A. Cervical fibroid
B. Parasitic fibroid
C. Subserosal fibroid
D. Submucosal fibroid

520- A 39-year-old woman presented with heavy menorrhagia and pelvic pressure with Lower limb heaviness and edema
. Pelvic ultrasound confirms the presence of uterine fibroid. What is the most likely location of this fibroid?
A. Cervical
B. Sub-Serosal
C. Intramural
D. Submucosal
Q: woman presented with menorrhagia. Pelvic us confirms the
presence of uterine fibroid. What is the most likely location of this fibroid?
A. Cervical
B. Subserosal
C. Intramural
D. Submucosal
Answer: D
521- A 45-year-old woman with no risk factors or family history comes to the clinic requesting colorectal cancer
screening. When should she start?
A- Now, then every 5 years
B- Start screening at age 50
522- Elderly patient k/c of osteoporosis with minimal benefit of NSAIDS and physical therapy. Orthopedic consultant
suggested for him surgical intervention which involves new knee implant that was just approved. This procedure is
expensive in compare to the other alternatives. The surgeon will receive a bouns for every patient undergoes this
procedure in the hospital. And he didn’t explain for him other interventions rather than surgery (this part is from the
person who wrote the recall previously, it was not mentioned in the my exam as I remember)
A. He didn’t explain the risk of surgery
B. the patient should have been referred to a second opinion ﺾﯾﺮﻤﻟاو ﺎﻣ ﺐﻠط ءﻲﺸﻟﺎھ ﻮﯾرﺎﻨﯿﺴﻟﺎﺑ
C. surgeon financial interest might affects the choice of knee implant (or something similar to this)
D. it is just a mild disease and surgery is not needed
523- Patient (32 years old i think) had menorrhagia she had subserosal fibroid 3x3 cm what is the management
A. myomectomy
B. hysterectomy
C. uterine artery embolisation
D. NSAIDs
524- 32-year-old single woman is attending the clinic complaining of menorrhagia for the last few months. The physical
examination is unremarkable. Pelvic Ultrasound: Presence of a serosal fibroid, 4 x 4 cm in size. Otherwise, the other
parameters of the ultrasound were normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Myomectomy
B. Hysterectomy
C. Uterine artery embolization
D. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs

525- Cohort study wants to see the effect of diet on cardiac disease. Two groups, one with bad diet and other was good
diet (scenario was longer and there were numbers but irrelevant) asked “what does the RELATIVE RISK measures?
A. Odds of heart disease in exposed group
B. Risk of heart disease exposed group
C. Probability of having heart disease based on diet
D. Last one don’t remember, maybe compare something
- Compare The Risk Of Disease Between Exposed And Unexposed Groups
Q: Cohort study wants to see the effect of diet on cardiac disease. Two groups, one with bad diet and other was good diet
(scenario was longer and there were numbers but irrelevant) asked “what does the RELATIVE RISK measures”?
A. Odds of heart disease in exposed group
B. Risk of heart disease in exposed group
C. Probability of having heart disease based on diet in both groups
526- A 39 weeks pregnant female, on examination amniotic fluid was noted to have a dark green color. What’s the most
appropriate action to be done [[[DURING]]] delivery?
A- Arrange NICU transfer after delivery
B- Immediate endotracheal intubation
C- Oropharyngeal suction before delivering the rest of body
D- IV antibiotics
527- 68 years old presents to ER with bright red bleedy stool and he is known case of hypertension and colorectal polyps.
He is pale and tachycardia Bp 160/90, 110 bpm Which of the following is the most appropriate initial management:
A- urgent colonoscopy
B- IV fluid and blood
C- abdominal CT scan
528- 68 years old presents to ER with bright red bleedy stool and he is known case of hypertension and colorectal polyps.
He is pale and tachycardia Bp 160/90 HR 110 bpm Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A
B- IV fluid and blood
C- CT Angiography (Not CT Abdomen)
No Urgent Colonoscopy
Q: ﺎﺟ اﺬھو angioﻮﻣ contrast with CTلا ﻦﻜﻟ ﺎﮭﺴﻔﻧ تارﺎﯿﺨﻟاو
529- 68 years old presents to ER with bright red bleedy stool and he is known case of hypertension and colorectal polyps.
He is pale and tachycardia Bp 160/90 HR 110 bpm Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A- Urgent Colonoscopy
B- IV fluid and blood

C- CT Angiography
530- Patient presents with epigastric pain that worsens after eating. She has a history of NSAID use. Endoscopy reveals a
duodenal ulcer. What is the next step in management?
A) Elective surgical repair
B) H. pylori eradication therapy (antibiotics)
C) Proton pump inhibitor (PPI)
D) Diet change
Q: woman comes with nausea and vomiting and abdominal pain that increases after each meal. She has history of
chronic NSAIDs use for arthritis. Endoscopy shows duodenal ulcer. No other info given. What is the initial step in
management?
A. Change diet and take over the counter antacid
B. Treat h pylori
C. PPI
D. Surgery
531- Patient presents with epigastric pain that worsens after eating. Endoscopy reveals a duodenal ulcer. What is the
next step in management?
A) Elective surgical repair
B) H. pylori eradication therapy (antibiotics)
C) Proton pump inhibitor (PPI)
D) Diet change
Q: young pt with regard symptoms, no wt loss, hb in normal level the most appropriate next investigation?
H. Pylori
Endoscopy
CT abdomen
532- Patient was diagnosed with a perforated peptic ulcer and underwent surgical repair with an omental patch. What is
the most appropriate Preventive Measure?
A. Maintain a healthy diet
B. Avoid NSAIDs
Q: An elderly patient presents with epigastric pain. Upper endoscopy reveals a perforated duodenal ulcer, which was
surgically repaired and appropriately treated. Which of the following is the most important preventive measure?
A. Stop NSAIDs
B. Diet with high fiber
C. Regular follow-up for gastric health
533- Patient was diagnosed with a perforated peptic ulcer and underwent surgical repair with an omental patch. What is
the most appropriate advice to give this patient after surgery?
A. Maintain a healthy diet
B. Avoid NSAIDs
C. Testing For Pylori

534- Patient was diagnosed with a perforated peptic ulcer and underwent surgical repair with an omental patch. What is
the most appropriate advice to give this patient after surgery?
A. Maintain a healthy diet
B. Avoid NSAIDs
C. Abx For Pylori
535- Patient smokes 20 cigarettes and vital signs show BP 140/92 Which of the following is the most considerable risk
factor for MI ?
A) Hypertension
B) Smoking
C) Age
Q: A 25-year-old woman was diagnosed to have a complete abortion at 10 weeks of gestation. The patient is a heavy
smoker and smokes more than 20 cigarettes a day. She was not taking any folic acid or dietary supplements. Which of
the following is the most likely risk that caused the miscarriage?
A. Diet low in carotene
B. Diet low in folic acid
C. No known risk factor
D. Smoking more than 20 cigarettes a day
536- A 55-year-old male smoker presents to the Emergency Room with a sudden onset of retrosternal chest pain
radiating to the neck. His systemic examination is unremarkable. ECG: ST-segment depression in II, III, and aVE.
Which of the following is the most considerable risk factor?
A. Smoking
B. Male gender
C. Patient's age
D. Hypertension
537- A 40-year-old male smoker presents to the Emergency Room with a sudden onset of retrosternal chest pain
radiating to the neck. His systemic examination is unremarkable. ECG: ST-segment depression in II, III, and aVF.
Which of the following is the most considerable risk factor?
A. Smoking
B. Male gender
C. Patient's age
D. Hypertension
538- A Child Presents With fever and irritability and red warm Painful Tender swelling in the lower part of the left leg.
There is no pus or abscess but the area is Enlarging. All vitals are stable and there are no Other systemic manifestations
A. Oral floxacillin with topical abx
B. Floxacillin with follow up
C. IV antibiotics with surgical consultation
539- A woman was trying to conceive, she is asymptomatic, was found to have serosal fibroid 5x5 cm incidentally on
pelvic US. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?

A. Conservative
B. Myomectomy
C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Uterine artery embolization
540- A woman was trying to conceive, she is asymptomatic, was found to have serosal fibroid 5x5 cm on pelvic US.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management? Examiner: The Word “Incidental” Not Present
A. Conservative
B. Myomectomy
C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Uterine artery embolization
541- 10-year-old child progressive respiratory distress, after severe pneumonia. Given oxygen therapy (no antibiotic
usage was mentioned Whatsoever!), with no improvements still hypoxia. Done cardio exam and echo normal, what's the
associated or what will you find on his x-ray?
A. Haemoptysis and no something else, I forgot what it was.
B. Bilateral infiltrates.
C. Apical consolidation.
D. Hyperinflated wheezy chest
B/C??
542- Baby delivered dead at 38 wks (Stillbirth case). Placenta and baby appear normal Which of the following is best to
sent for investigations for chromosomal analysis?
A. Umbilical cord sampling
B. Amniotic fluid
C. Fetal cord blood
D. Placental tissue
543- A patient with absent fetal heartbeat on ultrasound, which of the following is best to use for chromosomal analysis?
(A patient with fetal demise: which of the following is best to use for chromosomal analysis?)
A. Umbilical cord sampling
B. Amniotic fluid
C. Fetal cord blood
D. Placental tissue
Q: Patient now delivered how to know about the chromosomal analysis from where to take sample
A. Maternal cord
B . Amniotic fluid
C. Fetal cord
544- mother presented in OPD concerning for decrease fetal movement, at 18 weeks, there was no fetal heart beat, on
her previous visit fetus was normal with normal placenta and fetus heart beat. What the next step for diagnosis?

A. Amniocentesis
B. Placental tissue sampling
C. Umbilical tissue sampling
D. USG Abdomen
545- Macrosomia baby has weak moro reflux what is the next step?
A. immobilization and supportive management
B. Surgical intervention
C. Ca supplements
D. Dextrose
546- pregnant 38 weeks uncontrolled DM delivered macrosomic baby by SVD, the child has week moro reflex on the
right side, most appropriate management?
A- Surgery
B- IV dextrose
C- Immobilization of affected arm and support
547- Female patient a case of colon cancer came for colectomy, she lost 10% of her weight in the last few months, she
have poor appetite, dietitian discovered she had low protein and caloric intake What is the best action?
A- Oral Protein Supplements
B- Restrict fluid intake
C- TPN (total parenteral nutrition)
D- NG tube feeding
548- A mother of a 2-month-old infant complains that her baby has frequent episodes of excessive crying, often lasting
about 3 hours, during which the baby raises legs and passes gas. The baby has normal growth and feeding. What is the
most appropriate management?
A. Reassure the parents
B. [Option not given]
C. Simethicone
D. [Option not given]
549- A 4-year-old child presents with nocturnal cough. I think he had URTI before. But he have similar episodes of the
cough not preceded by URTI and relieved by inhaler What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A) Chest X-ray
B) Spirometry
C) Inhaled corticosteroids
Q: A 4-year-old boy with a history of eczema presents with cough following an URTI. He had a similar episode recently
but without a preceding URTI and it was relieved by an inhaler. Bilateral expiratory wheezes on examination. What is
the most appropriate management?
A. Chest X-ray
B. Spirometry
C. Chest CT

D. Inhaled corticosteroids
550- 29 year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department with slurred speech. She has a known history of
depression and alcohol use disorder, and she reports occasional cravings for mariuana. On exam, she is drowsy, slurring
her words, and smells of alcohol. Vitals are stable. Which of the following is the best next step?
A- Urine drug screen
B- Liver function tests
C- TSH
D- Head CT
Q: 29-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department with slurred speech. She has a known history of
depression and
alcohol use disorder, and she reports occasional cravings for mariuana. On exam, she is drowsy, slurring her words, and
smells of alcohol. Vitals are stable.
Best next step?
A-Urine drug screen
B-Liver function tests
C-IV thiamine
D-Head CT
Answer: C
Q: A 29 year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department ( I forgot but I think not to the emergency to the clinic)
c/o insomnia
anxiety. She has a known history of depression, not compliance to her medications and she reports occasional cravings
for
mariuana and alcohol On exam, she is unkempt, slurring her words (no smells of alcohol or anything) Vitals are stable.
What is the most appropriate initial investigation?
A. Complete blood count (CBC)
B. Urine drug test
C. Pulmonary function test
D. Thyroid function test
No CT , No Thiamine
Answer: B
Q: A 29 year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department ( I forgot but I think not to the emergency to the clinic)
c/o
insomnia anxiety. She has a known history of depression, not compliance to her medications and she reports occasional
cravings for mariuana and alcohol On exam, she is unkempt, slurring her words (no smells of alcohol or anything) Vitals
are stable. Which of the following is the best next step?
A. Urine drug screen
B. Liver function tests
C. TSH
D. CBC

Answer: A
551- child comes with abdominal pain, bringing his legs to chest and has red currant jelly stool. What is the best way to
prevent this occurrence?
A- Educate about early symptoms
B- High fiber diet
C- physical activity in infancy
D- Exclusive breastfeeding
552- child comes with abdominal pain, bringing his legs to chest and has red currant jelly stool. What is the best way to
prevent this occurrence?
A- Educate about early symptoms
B- High fiber diet
C- physical activity in infancy
553- Case of pyloric stenosis ﺢﺿاو ه What is the most important protective or preventive measures from parents اﺬﻛ ﻲﺷ يز
A. Educate them about early symptoms
B. Increase fiber intake
C. Anti reflux meds
554- A child with cystic fibrosis (CF) is brought to your clinic. The mother asks: "Is it safe for my child to play with
another child who also has cystic fibrosis?" What is the best advice?
A. Yes, it is safe; they can play together freely
B. No, avoid close contact with each other to prevent cross-infection
C. Only if both children are on antibiotics
D. Only if they wear masks
555- 7yo female cystic fibrosis , playing with other child with cystic fibrosis , most appropriate?
A- playing together with face mask
influenza vaccine for both of them
C- immediately separate them
556- child with cystic fibrosis came with recurrent Pulmonary Infections Despite respiratory clearance and he well start
to go school this year what should do to decrease the incidence of recurrent infection ?
A- Not go to school
B- Increase respiratory clearance
C- give influenza vaccine
557- Clear question about patient has potassium 6 what is the finding in ECG?
A. peak t
B. peak p

C. short pr
D. narrow QRS
558- Primigravida came to antenatal clinic concerned about having a NTD She Has Prior History Of Anencephaly. what
Is Recommended Folic Acid Dose?
A- 1000 Microgram
B- 2000 Microgram
C- 5000 Microgram
Q: -the appropriate dose of folic acid is planning to get pregnant?
A) 1 mg
B) 5 mg
C) 15 mg
D) 20 mg
Answer: A
559- Primigravida came to antenatal clinic concerned about having a NTD child as her cousin Had Child With
Anencephaly?
A- 1000 Microgram
B- 2000 Microgram
C- 5000 Microgram
Q: Folic acid dose in healthy preg mg 1, 5 , 6
560- Primigravida came to antenatal clinic concerned about having a NTD She Has Prior History Of Hydrocephalus.
what Is Recommended Folic Acid Dose?
A- 1000 Microgram
B- 2000 Microgram
C- 5000 Microgram
561- Mother On Phenytoin , What Is Folic Acid Dose
A- 1000 Microgram
B- 2000 Microgram
C- 5000 Microgram
562- A 28-year-old woman is referred to the clinic with a 3-week history of generalized fatigability, malaise, arthralgia,
back pain, and fever. She has a positive history of raw milk ingestion. On abdominal examination, mild
hepatosplenomegaly is noted. Temperature: 38.5 °C. Laboratory Results: Hb: 10.5 g/dL (Normal: 120–160 g/L for
females) Platelet count: 120 × 10⁹/L (Normal: 150–400 × 10⁹/L) Blood culture: Gram-negative coccobacilli MRI of the
back: Sacroiliac joint spondylitis What is the optimal duration of therapy?
A. 3 weeks

B. 6 weeks
C. 12 weeks
D. 24 weeks
563- A 28-year-old woman is referred to the clinic with a 3-week history of generalized fatigability, malaise, arthralgia,
back pain, and fever. She has a positive history of raw milk ingestion. On abdominal examination, mild
hepatosplenomegaly is noted. Temperature: 38.5 °C. Laboratory Results: Hb: 10.5 g/dL (Normal: 120–160 g/L for
females) Platelet count: 120 × 10⁹/L (Normal: 150–400 × 10⁹/L) Blood culture: Gram-negative coccobacilli MRI NOT
MENTIONED What is the optimal duration of therapy?
A. 3 weeks
B. 6 weeks
C. 12 weeks
D. 24 weeks
564- A 9-year-old child presents with mild bilateral leg pain that has been gradually increasing over the past 3 months.
He has spent less time in outdoor activities recently and reports feeling fatigued after walking short distances. Patient
has good diet and appetite .physical examination normal Your next step
A. Refer for Orthopedic surgery
B. Advise increase in outdoor activities and play .
C. Advise sun exposure and vitamin D supplements
D. Prescribe Calcium + vitamin d supplementation
565- A Patient Presents With Nausea And Vomiting For 3 Days And Develops Muscle Weakness. Labs Show Potassium
Level Of 2.9 Mmol/L. What Is The Most Appropriate Management?
A. Observation
B. Oral Potassium Chloride (KCl)
C. Intravenous KCl
D. IV Fluids With Potassium

566- 52 y/o Obese k/c dm women her waist circumference is 125cm and hip circumference about 100, (weight & height
not mentioned) Labs: LDL: 4.3. (2.0-3.7) which of the following markers is an indicator of significant health risk?
A. LDL
B. BMI
C. Waist hip ratio
D. Waist circumference
C/D??
Q: Obese women her waist circumference is 125cm and hip circumference (don’t remember) about 100, (weight &
height not mentioned) Labs: LDL: 4.3. (2.0-3.7) (I calculated it, it was 77 mg/dL) which of her markers is an biochemical
indicator of significant health risk?
A. High LDL
B. BMI
C. Waist hip ratio
D. Waist circumference
567- 37 weeks gestational female having contractions, baby is cephalic , cervix 4cm dilated, baby at 1+ station. Female
started bleeding with tender abdomen, ctg normal fetus
A. Give oxytocin
B. Surgical vaginal delivery
C. Observation
D. Anesthesia
568- 30 YO Man present to clinic with repeated episodes of joint pain for 3 months, now complaining of right knee pain,
no fever tenderness or systemic manifestations and no recent history of illness (that’s how they said it specifically) Wbc
normal Uric acid: 400 (High Normal) (Normal <480) What’s the cause
A. Gout
B. Pseudogout (Calcium Pyro-Phosphate Deposition Disease) (CPPD)
C- Reactive arthritis
D- Septic arthritis
Q: 30-year-old man presents to clinic with right knee pain. He previously had a gout flare 3 months ago. Currently, he
complains of right knee pain. There is no fever, swelling, effusion, or systemic manifestations, only tenderness on
palpation. No recent illness. Labs: • WBC: normal • Serum uric acid: 400 µmol/L (high-normal, normal <480) • Urea: 7
(High) What is the diagnosis?
A. Gout
B. Pseudogout
C. Septic arthritis

569- A 3-year-old child presents with poor feeding and hematuria. On examination, there is a large abdominal mass, and
chest examination shows decreased air entry in multiple areas. What is the most important investigation in the disease
assessment?
A- Lung CT
B- Bone marrow aspiration
C- Abdominal ultrasound
570- 35 male has metalic valve on warfarin anticoagulant, drowsy complaining of bloody stool Examination: cold
periphry , hypotension and pallor Vitals signs: 90/65 mmHg Labs: Hb 6 ( low) WBC 12 ( high) Thrombocytosis 550 (
high) PT : 40 ( prolonged) APTT: 60 ( prolonged) INR: 7 what is the most appropriate therapy in the fluid terms ?
A. ringer lactate administration
B. protein purified factor
C. Normal saline
D. Packed RBC
B/D??
571- 49-year-old male smoker for many years came to clinic for pulmonary cancer screening, what is ?the most
appropriate screening tools
A. Low dose CT
B. Chest x ray
C. Bronchoscopy
D. No Need
UpToDate:
If age ≥50 = LDCT
If age <50 = No screening (even if smoker)

572- 49-year-old male smoker for many years came to clinic for pulmonary cancer screening, what is ?the most
appropriate screening tools
A. Low dose CT
B. Chest x ray
C. Bronchoscopy
D. Sputum or something
UpToDate:
If age ≥50 = LDCT
If age <50 = No screening (even if smoker)
No need رﺎﯿﺧ ﮫﯿﻓ ﺪﺟﻮﯾ ﻻ ﺎﻨھ
A. Low dose CT بﺮﻗﻻا ﮫﺑﺎﺟﻻا
573- A multiparous patient who had delivered 6 babies previously all of which through CS now wants to deliver her 7th
baby by CS. The doctors recommended tube ligation to prevent serious complications with future pregnancies. What is
the best action
A) Take consent from her or her representative
B) Take consent from both husband
C) Take consent from her and tell her to inform her husband
D) Consult ethics committee
574- 28yo female came ER with right lower quadrant pain for 12h, physical Examination revealed suprapubic and
lower quadrant tenderness without rebound Wbc 12.5 US: inconclusive What is the most appropriate next step ?
A) CT
B) TransVaginal US (TVUS)
C) Diagnostic Laparoscopy
D) Open appendectomy
575- 40 years old pregnant lady, she’s in her second pregnancy, her first pregnancy went very well and she has a living
child, her past history is unremarkable, she doesn’t have any chronic disease, her BMI is 26. She’s now in her 12 week of
gestation , And she presented now in her first antenatal care visit, which of the following is the best thing to council her
about?
A. Do a 50 oral glucose tolerance test
B. Council her about the current best options for genetic abnormalities or something like the prenatal care screening.
C. Give her low dose aspirin to prevent pre-eclampsia.
D. Give her a Tdab vaccine
576- A 16-week primigravida who is medically free presented to the clinic with fears of delivering a macrosomic baby.
Her BMI is 35. What is the appropriate test?
A- Fasting blood glucose
B- 75g OGTT

577- A 12-year-old boy is diagnosed with stage 1 hypertension during a routine checkup. His blood pressure readings
have been consistently elevated on multiple occasions. He is otherwise healthy with a normal BMI and no signs of
end-organ damage. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A: Start ACE inhibitor therapy
B: Begin lifestyle modifications
C: Refer for renal ultrasound
D: Advise smoking cessation
Q: A 12-year-old boy is diagnosed with stage 1 hypertension during a routine checkup. His blood pressure readings have
been consistently elevated on multiple occasions. He is otherwise healthy with a normal BMI and no signs of end-organ
damage. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A: Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring
B: renal ultrasound with Doppler
C: catecalmine
D: Renin-Aldosterone Ratio
578- A 45-year-old man presents to the Emergency Department with a 3-day history of fever and a productive cough of
yellowish sputum. Medical history is significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus. He is a smoker. His chest examination
reveals decreased breath sounds throughout and crackles at the right lung base. Other systemic examination is
unremarkable (see report). Chest radiograph: Right lower lobe infiltrate. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Admit him, start ceftriaxone and azithromycin
B. Admit him, start intravenous amoxicillin
C. Outpatient treatment with azithromycin
D. Outpatient treatment with cefuroxime and azithromycin
✔
D Gameboy
Q: 45-year-old man presents to the Emergency Department with a 3-day history of fever and a productive cough of
yellowish sputum. Medical history is significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus. He is a smoker. His chest examination
reveals decreased breath sounds throughout and crackles at the right lung base. Other systemic examination is

unremarkable (see report). Chest radiograph: Right lower lobe infiltrate. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. start ceftriaxone and azithromycin
B. start vancomycin and azithromycin
C. antiviral and azithromycin
D. meropenem and azithromycin
✅
D Gameboy
579- A 45-year-old man presents to the Emergency Department with a 3-day history of fever and a productive cough of
yellowish sputum. Medical history is significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus. He is a smoker. His chest examination
reveals decreased breath sounds throughout and crackles at the right lung base. Other systemic examination is
unremarkable (see report). Chest radiograph: Right lower lobe infiltrate. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Admit him, start ceftriaxone and azithromycin
B. Admit him, start intravenous amoxicillin
C. Outpatient treatment with azithromycin
D. Outpatient treatment with cefuroxime (No Azithromycin)

580- 13- years old female presented with chronic diarrhoea and altered bowle habits for 3 -4 months , did colonoscopy :
showed transmural inflamed patches , what is the first-option treatment?
A- Systemic steroid
B- Infliximab
C- Methotrexate
D- not sure really
Q: patient came complaining of abdomin microscopic finding is Transmural Patchy at Terminal ileum management :صﯾﺧﺷﺗﻟا بﺗﻛﺎﻣ
- manage nutrition
- methotrexate
- Inflexamb
- steroid
581- A full-term infant of a diabetic mother has a hematocrit of 71% and appears plethoric. What is the appropriate
management?
A) Reassurance
B) Partial exchange transfusion if symptomatic
C) Phototherapy
D) IV fluids and hydration
582- An Elderly Man (60–70 Years) With Diabetes Mellitus, Hypertension, BMI 31, And A History Of Smoking (Stopped
15 Years Ago) Presents With Difficulty Walking Short Distances. What Is The Primary Risk Factor For His Symptoms?
A. Smoking
B. Hypertension And Obesity
C. It Is Normal For His Age
583- An 18-month-old child with normal growth and weight is brought by his parents. They are concerned because his
older sibling has celiac disease. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Reassure the parents
B. Order tissue transglutaminase IgA (tTG-IgA) test
C. Start a gluten-free diet
584- An 4-Year-Old child with normal growth and weight is brought by his parents. They are concerned because his
older sibling has celiac disease. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Reassure the parents
B. Order tissue transglutaminase IgA (tTG-IgA) test
C. Start a gluten-free diet
585- Pt after splenectomy surgery presented with with multiple episodes of intestinal obstruction Now complianing of
abdominal destination pain rigidity sluggish bowel sounds Vitality stable X ray air fluid level What is the initial
management?
A- Paracentesis
B- gastrografin enema
C- exploratory laparotomy

D- NGT , analgesic, bowel rest
586- Case for patient with PUD present with grading and rigidity and rebound tenderness (perforation) What is the
*initial* next step?
A- fluid resuscitation
B- ex lap
587- A case of hemolytic uremic syndrome diarrhea Lab investigations was ordered What are findings?
A: Atypical lymphocytes
B: Eosinophilia
C: Fragmented RBC
588- Pediatric with KNEE AND ANKLE (2 Joints) pain, limited range of motion, warmth, had gastroenteritis 2 weeks
ago US shows effusion How to MANAGEA (It was management)
A. oral ibuprofen
B. oral aspirin? Anelgesia? Don't remember
C. synovial aspiration for analysis and culture
D. I think IV ABX
589- Pediatric with knee pain, limited range of motion, warmth, had gastroenteritis 2 weeks ago Xray shows No effusion
How to MANAGEA (It was management)
A. oral ibuprofen
B. oral aspirin? Anelgesia? Don't remember
C. synovial aspiration for analysis and culture
D. I think IV ABX
590- A 6 months years old child known case cerebral palsy With recurrent episodes of pneumonia (Did They Say
Aspiration?) And Failure To Thrive Despite Thickned Formula Diagnosis of GERD is suspected ( ﺔﻄﻘﻧ ﺔﯾﺎﮭﻧ ﺮﻄﺴﻟا( What is
the most appropriate diagnostic approach? ﻂﯿﺒﻌﻟا ﺐﯿﺗﺮﺘﻟا اﺬﺑ ﻞﻣﺎﻛ لﻮﻜﯾﺮﻟا ﻮھ اﺬھ
A. Contrast upper GI study
B. Ph monitoring
C. Endoscopy
D. Trial of PPI
591- Female patient aged 45 medically free no HTN or DM. BMI 38. She has a positive family history of premature
cardiac death. LDL ~3.47 (higher than normal range) Whats the best counseling for her/lower her cardiovascular risk?
A- start high-intensity statin
B- Lifestyle modification
592- Male Patient, 45 Years Old, Hypertensive And Smoker For 20 Years. Lipid Profile Shows: LDL 4.3, Total
Cholesterol 6.1, Triglycerides Normal. What Is The Best Preventive Counseling?
A. Initiate High-Intensity Statin Immediately

B. Lifestyle Modifications And Recheck Lipid After 3 Months
C. Give Aspirin No Moderate Intensity Statin
593- A previously healthy 4-month-old uncircumcised boy is brought to the Emergency Department with a 2-day history
of fever. He has not had vomiting, diarrhea, cough, or nasal congestion. There has been no known contact with ill
persons. He has continued to breastfeed and has not had a decrease in the number wet diapers. He is mildly ill appearing
but alert and interactive. Examination shows no focus of infection. Urinary catheterization is performed (see lab results).
Temperature 39.1 °C Test Result Normal Values pH 7.5 4.3-8 Specific gravity 1010 1001-1030 Protein Absent Absent
Glucose Absent Absent Ketones Absent Absent Nitrite Positive Absent Leukocytes 30-40 0-3 per high power field
Erythrocytes 5-10 0-2 per high power field which of the following is the most appropriate empirical therapy?
A. Oral cephalexin
B. Oral azithromycin
C. Intravenous cefepime
D. Intravenous ceftriaxone
594- A previously healthy 4-month-old uncircumcised boy is brought to the Emergency Department with a 2-day history
of fever. He has not had vomiting, diarrhea, cough, or nasal congestion. There has been no known contact with ill
persons. He has continued to breastfeed and has not had a decrease in the number wet diapers. He is mildly ill appearing
but alert and interactive. Examination shows no focus of infection. Urinary catheterization is performed (see lab results).
Temperature 39.1 °C Test Result Normal Values pH 7.5 4.3-8 Specific gravity 1010 1001-1030 Protein Absent Absent
Glucose Absent Absent Ketones Absent Absent Nitrite Positive Absent Leukocytes 30-40 0-3 per high power field
Erythrocytes 5-10 0-2 per high power field which of the following is the most appropriate empirical therapy?
A. Oral Amoxicillin
B. Oral azithromycin
C. Intravenous cefepime
D. Intravenous ceftriaxone
Q: 5-year-old girl presented with fever and dysuria, Most appropriate
treatment?
A. Oral amoxicillin
Q: Child with constipation and symptoms of cystitis/UTI. Most appropriate antibiotic
treatment?
A. Amoxicillin
B. Metronidazole
D. No treatment
595- A patient presents with dull chest pain that is not related to activity. The pain is more prominent after spicy meals
or emotional stress and increases with lying flat. [Hb Not Mentioned] How to establish the diagnosis?
A- Barium swallow
B- Endoscopy
C- Esophageal manometry
D- pH monitoring
596- A patient presents with dull chest pain that is not related to activity. The pain is more prominent after spicy meals
or emotional stress and increases with lying flat.

[Hb 110] How to establish the diagnosis?
A- Barium swallow
B- Endoscopy
C- Esophageal manometry
D- pH monitoring
597- A 35-year-old woman with a leiomyoma associated with heavy menstruation (see image and lab result). [Labs
Showed Low Hb And CT Showing Fibroid] Which of the following is the most appropriate next management step?
A. Myomectomy
B. Correct the anemia
C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Uterine artery embolization
598- A young woman in the childbearing age presents with chronic pelvic pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. {There
was a picture of a sagittal view CT scan showed a gray, well-defined circle in the uterus } What is the best next step in
management?
A. Myomectomy
B. Uterine artery ablation
C. Oral contraceptive pills (OCP)
C??
599- A 45-years old female in 5th day post-hysterectomy the patient have fever, she does not complain of anything and
the wound is clean. What is your next step of measurement?
A- CBC culture
B- Urinalysis and culture
C- Chest x-ray
D- Review medication
600- Patient With Lung cancer and pneumonia That is TREATED COMPLETELY, the patient passed away and the
doctor was doing to write in the report that cancer is the cause of death but the patient family refused and insisted it was
pneumonia, best action ?
A Write pneumonia as the cause of death
B Write lung cancer as the cause of death
C Write that pneumonia was a contributing factor to death
601- Patient With Lung cancer and pneumonia That is . the patient passed away and the doctor was doing to write in the
report that cancer is the cause of death but the patient family refused and insisted it was pneumonia, best action ?
(THEY DID NOT MENTION THAT PNEUMONIA WAS TREATED)
A Write pneumonia as the cause of death
B Write lung cancer as the cause of death
C Write that pneumonia was a contributing factor to death

602- A newborn presents with persistent bleeding after circumcision that does not stop with compression. There is a
positive family history of a bleeding disorder affecting Mother’s Brother ( no labs ). What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hemophilia A
B. Von willebrand disease
C. Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
D. Platelet disorder
603- A 3 years old came with unilateral undescending testis and no scrotum in the affected side what other conditions
could be accompanied (something like this in surgery and medical part not pedi) Which of the following is associated
Finding?
A- Hypospadias
B- Inguinal hernia
C- Pyloric stenosis
D- Congenital heart disease
604- A 3 years old came with unilateral undescended testis and no scrotum in the affected side what other conditions
could be accompanied (something like this in surgery and medical part not pedi) Which of the following is associated
with this finding and related to sexual development?
A- Hypospadias
B- Inguinal hernia
C- Pyloric stenosis
D- Congenital heart disease
605- A male has readings of high blood pressure. he doesn't exercise, high salt intake, and has stressful job. bp 138/88 (or
98 not sure) Na 160 other labs normal what is the INITIAL approach to manage this patient?
A- Start immediately antihypertensive
B- lower salt intake and enhance physical activity
C- advice to monitor bp and record the readings (something like that)
606- Old male came to the travel clinic He has a 14 hour flight and his friend told him about DVT And he came for
advice on how to prevent it ?
A. prescribe anticoagulant
B. stay seated with elevated legs
C. moving and regular exercise
D. i forgot
607- 70 years old Came to er after 12h complain of symptoms with rt side weakness. Ct showed: posterior artery
occlusion with mild to moderate ischemic core Management?
A. tPa
B. observe
C. mechanical thrombectomy
D. Tpa with mechanical thrombectomy
Q: A patient presented with right sided weakness that started 12 hours ago .. proximal anterior circulation occlusion..
moderate size infarct core

A- tPA
B- Mechanical thrombectomy
C- Observation
D- tPA and mechanical thrombectomy
608- 68 years old came to the er with 3 days history of bilateral leg weakness and brisk movements reflexes in both legs,
with urine retention and inability to walk and sensory level of T10 What is the diagnosis?
A. Transverse myelitis
B. GBS
C. Cauda equina syndrome
D. Cord compression
609- A hairdresser came to the emergency department with a swollen finger after pulling the skin around the nail a few
days ago. Nail bed is intact
A- Felon
B- Paronychia
C- Onychomycosis
D- Cellulitis
610- Patient Known case of UC, Presented with severe Bloody diarrhea, Patient is very sick. What to Add after IV fluid?
A - Azathioprine
B- IV methylprednisolone
C- Oral Prednisone
611- A patient with pneumonia is agitated, pH 7.1, and PaO₂ 7 kPa. What is the best management?
A- Elective intubation
B- BiPAP
612- A patient had an upper respiratory tract infection 5 days ago. Suddenly, he developed loss of consciousness and
difficulty breathing. He is currently intubated. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Pulmonary edema
B. Myasthenia gravis
C. COPD
D. Drug Overdose

613- A 70-Year-Old Man With Terminal Lung Cancer Came To The ER Because Of Abdominal Obstruction. He Had
Discussed DNR Previously But No Official Documentation Was Completed. He Develops Cardiac Arrest In The OR.
What Is The Right Ethical Action?
A. Full Resuscitation
B. Follow The Patient’s Wish And Do Not Resuscitate
C. Contact The Hospital Ethics Department
D. Contact The Family Regarding Their Wish
614- What is the primary approach that is used by the IRB to assess the ethical acceptability of a research study?
A. Utilitarianism
B. Deontology
C. Ethical skepticism
D. Comparativeism
615- A group of researchers doing research about children with diabetes in schools what is the primary approach that is
used by the IRB to assess the ethical used of acceptability:
A) Comparatism
B) Subjectivism
616- A COPD patient with recorded Do Not Intubate (DNI) his case deteriorated. The team thinks intubating him might
prolong his life. What would you do in this case?
A. Respect his DNI
B. Consult his family before making a decision
C. Proceed with intubation as it may prolong his life
D. Intubate the patient regardless of his DNI

617- Elderly women with progressive pulmonary fibrosis expresses wishe to do not intubate (DNI) and the patient signs
the consent (she was conscious and alert) After that the pt deteriorate and started to develop respiratory distress , a
nurse aims to help and the patient’s son want to intubate her regardless the DNI What should the nurse do ?
A- Palliative care (smthn like this)
B- Endorracheal intubation
C- Do non invasive ventilation
D- Do not intubate because the pt signs the order
618- A patient presents with a firm, painless, raised pink papule. Upon taking history the patient told you she had an old
scar due to burn. What is the type of ulcer?
A) Arterial
B) Cushing
C) Marjolin
D) Neuropathic
Q: A 60-year-old woman presents with an erythematous, oozing, painful lesion on her left
arm. She has a history of burn injury on the same side.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Neuropathic
B. Ulcer
C. Marjolin
619- Pediatric patient was brought to ED with decreased level of consciousness. BP 75/55 HR 300/min ECG picture: SVT
Whats the appropriate immediate management?
A. Amiodarone
B. Vagal maneuvers
C. Adenosine
D. Synchronized electrical cardioversion
Department. He is alert, with a blood pressure of 75/50 mmHg and a heart rate of 130 beats per minute. His ECG is
shown below. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Adenosine
B. Amiodarone
C. Vagal stimulation
D. Synchronized electrical cardioversion
Q: A 45-year-old man presented to the Emergency Room with palpitations. Initially, he was conscious and oriented. His vital signs
were as shown. After some time, he became less responsive, and his blood pressure dropped to 80/45 mmHg (see report).
ECG: Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT).
Which of the following is the most appropriate immediate action?
A. Pacemaker
B. Cardioversion
C. Propranolol
D. Radiofrequency ablation

An 8-year-old boy presents to the Emergency Department. He is alert, with a blood pressure of 75/50 mmHg and a heart rate of 130
beats per minute. His ECG is shown below.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Adenosine
B. Amiodarone
C. Vagal stimulation
D. Synchronized electrical cardioversion
Answer D
Unstable px with SVT
620- man and his wife decide to do IVF, and they did it and there is an embryo, they decide to get divorce before insering
it inside the wife, so what should you do with embryo
A. Allow the husband to get it in a new wife
B. Gets rid of it
C. Allow the ex-wife to keep it with the consent from the husband
D. Froze it until The disagreement resolved
621- A married couple, both 35, married for 10 years and been trying to conceive. Both are fertile. Fertility induction
and egg retrieval was successful. Before the next appointment for embryonic implantation, the couple got divorced.
What do you do with the embryo?
A. Permit Husband to implant it in his new wife
B. Keep embryo and wait till legal settlement is done
C. Discard of embryo, since marital status is illegal.
D. Allow wife to use it after ex-husband’s consent
622- Researcher is conducting a study of students reading books at schools. Results: 4,6,7,5,5,3,7,5,5,6,5,5,6,5,5,5,4,6,4,5
What is the mode of the study?
A. 3
B. 7
C. 6
D. 5
623- Patient is positive for TB, which TB medication causes high uric acid?
A. Isoniazid

B. Rifampicin
C. Ethambutol
D. Pyrazinamide
Q:
624- Pedia Pt with typical symptoms of thyroglossal cyst (not written) What is the management?
A. Surgical excision
Possible Recall : A child with a painless neck nodule that moves up and down, moves up with tongue protrusion. What is
the most appropriate treatment ?
A. Surgical excision
B. Needle aspiration
C. Reassurance
625- Question in 4th February about pt transfer blood before 12 years ; he got s/s of chronic hepatitis ; which type cause
it Hbv antibodies positive
A-A
B-B
C-C
D-D
Q: Patient received blood transfusions before 12 years ; he got s/s of chronic hepatitis ; which type cause it Hbv
antibodies positive Hbv antigen negative HCV antibodies positive 100% sure Hbc was not mentioned.
A-A
B-B
C-C
D-D
Q: A patient received blood transfusions before 12 years and developed symptoms of chronic hepatitis. HBV antibodies
positive HBV antigen negative HCV antibodies positive Hepatitis C RNA = 1.5 million Which type of chronic hepatitis
does this patient have?

A
B
C
D
626- A 22-year-old man is evaluated for a 2-day history of dysuria and urethral discharge. He had recent sexual activity
with a new female partner. He is afebrile, and his examination is unremarkable (see report). Which of the following is
the most appropriate treatment?
A. Gentamycin
B. Azithromycin
C. Ceftriaxone
D. Nitrofurantoin
627- A 55 years old man newly diagnosed with DM2 Started on Metformin 1000 BID and gliclazide or glyburide, after 6
months of treatment Urea: Normal Fasting 6.8 ( normal <6.5 ) A1C was 5.8 (normal 4.7-5.6) What is the next step?
A) Reassurance
B) Increase the dose
C) Add insulin
D) Inform him he is at High cardiovascular risk
Q: Patient in 50s came at follow up clinic k/c of DM on metformin 500 mg PID and gliclazide. HbA1c: 5.8 (normal value
5.6) what to do?
A. Reassure
B. Increase metformin and gliclazide dose
C. Add insulin
D. Tell him he is at a high risk for cardiovascular disease
628- A 60-year-old man complaining of right knee pain for several years that has increased over the last few months. He
also has noticed frequent knee clicks. A diagnosis of osteoarthritis is suspected. Which of the following is the most
appropriate to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Bilateral knee X-rays.
B. MRI of the right knee.
C. No further investigation.
D. Arthroscopy for the right knee.
629- A pregnant woman at 11 weeks gestation is found to have a positive anti-E antibody titer of 1:16 . What is the next
best step in management ?
A. Follow Up After 4 Weeks ؟؟
B. Give anti-D immunoglobulin now
C. Perform middle cerebral artery (MCA) Doppler ؟؟
D. Amniocentesis for chromosomal abnormalities
630- pregnant woman at 11 weeks gestation is found to have a positive anti-E antibody titer of 1:16 . What is the next
best step in management ?

A. Repeat Titer After 4 Weeks ؟
B. Give anti-D immunoglobulin now
C. Perform middle cerebral artery (MCA) Doppler ؟؟
D. Amniocentesis for chromosomal abnormalities
631- pregnant woman at 16 weeks gestation is found to have a positive anti-E antibody titer of 1:16 . What is the next
best step in management ?
A. Follow Up After 4 Weeks ؟
B. Give anti-D immunoglobulin now
C. Perform middle cerebral artery (MCA) Doppler ؟؟؟
D. Amniocentesis for chromosomal abnormalities
632- year-old woman known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus just returned from Makkah. She complains of fever,
lethargy, and headache. She has no cough, chest pain, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, or skin
rash. Examination reveals a drowsy patient with positive neck stiffness (see report). Lumbar puncture: Low glucose,
markedly increased protein, WBC 9000 with predominantly neutrophils. Which of the following is the most appropriate
medication to start?
A- Cefotaxime and vancomycin
B- Ampicillin and cefotaxime
C- Ceftriaxone and vancomycin
D- Ceftriaxone and azithromycin
633- 43-year-old woman presented with intermenstrual bleeding in the last 3 months (see report). Ultrasound: A 13 mm
long echogenic structure in the endometrium. Which of the following is the most appropriate management option?
A. Endometrial sample
B. Repeat the ultrasound in 6 weeks
C. Cyclic progesterone for 3 months
D. Hysteroscopy and removal of the structure
634- Child with a known fatty acid oxidation defect (detoxification) develops fatigue and hypoglycemia following a viral
illness. Which of the following measures is most effective in preventing metabolic decompensation during future illness
episodes?
A. Continuous glucose infusion
B. Fasting to promote ketone production
C. High-fat diet
D. Protein restriction

635- A pregnant woman presented to the clinic. During her visit the doctor informed her that the fetus has anencephaly
and advised for termination. The wife agreed but her husband is refusing. What is the appropriate action?
A) You need both consent from her and husband
B) Only need her consent
C) Only need her consent and she should inform her husband
D) Obtain consent from a representative
636- A doctor agreed that the patient needs to abort the child due to chromosomal anomalies, but the father refused.
What is the appropriate course of action in this situation?
A) Doctor's consent is enough
B) Mother's consent prevails
C) Father's consent prevails
D) Consult ethics committee
637- In a case of anencephaly, the doctor advised an abortion. The mother agreed to the procedure, but the father
refused. What is the most appropriate action?
A) Fathers decision prevails
B) Mothers decision prevails
C) Doctor decides
D) Consent taken from both mother and father
638- A 60-year-old man known to have hypertension and post aortic valve replacement on lisinopril 20 mg. amlodipine 5
mg and warfarin 3 mg once daily. He was admitted to the hospital with history of productive cough and shortness of
breath, and was found to have positive acid fast bacilli (AFB) in sputum. First line four anti-TB drugs were started.
Which’s of the following medications needs to be adjusted?
A. Lisinopril
B. Amlodipine
C.
D. Rifampin
No Warfarin
639- A school-aged child with asthma came to the ER with acute asthma exacerbation, SpO2 95%, peak flow meter at
best 60, can complete full sentences, took two puffs of salbutamol at home, mild wheeze on auscultation. Which is the
most appropriate management?
A) Start oral corticosteroids and hospitalize
B) Add salmeterol and hospitalize
C) Add ipratropium
D) Give salbutamol by spacer then reassess
640- A 30-year-old woman with bronchial asthma developed worsening dyspnea and cough following paint inhalation
from neighborhood apartment. On examination, she is in respiratory distress, cannot complete a sentence and cyanosed.
Chest auscultation revealed reduced breath sounds in both sides with short inspiratory and exploratory rhonchi (see lab
results). Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 130 /min Respiratory rate 20 /min Oxygen saturation 85 % Test Result

Normal Values ABG HCO3- 24 22-28 mmol/L ABG PCO2 7.8 4.7-6.0 kPa pH 7.3 7.36-7.45 ABG P02 7.5 10.6-14.2 kPa
Which of the following is the best immediate action in management?
A. Intravenous magnesium infusion
B. Intravenous aminophylline infusion
C. Intubation and mechanical ventilation
D. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure ventilation
641- 6-month-old infant presents with a history of recurrent cough and upper respiratory tract infections (URTI) about
7–8 episodes over the past year. What should we do?
A- Advise hand hygiene
B- Give prophylactic low-dose antibiotics
C- Refer to ENT for tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy
642- 50 years old male patient K/C of DM . He did open abdominal surgery. In the 3rd post-operative days, he develop
redness and swelling at the surgical site maybe tender swelling. Vitally stable (I think they mentioned no fever). What is
the best management?
A- Surgical Debridement
B- empiric IV antibiotic.
C- take culture and observe
D- reassurance
643- An 18-month-old child is brought by his mother to the well-baby clinic for MMR vaccination. He has an upper
respiratory tract infection, fever of 38.9°C, and congested throat. On examination, the child appears slightly ill.
Regarding vaccination what is the best option?
A. Give MMR vaccine now
B. Postpone vaccination until the child recovers
C. Give the MMR vaccine without rubella component
D. The second dose should be given at 4 year

644- A 62-year-old woman known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and ischemic stroke 1
month ago, presented to the Emergency Room complaining of central stabbing continuous chest pain for 3 hours. She
denied any dyspnea, palpitation, or change in consciousness. The patient is taking insulin, lisinopril, metoprolol, lipitor,
and aspirin. Examination revealed she is in pain. She was started on oxygen, morphine, and sublingual nitroglycerin (see
image). Which of the following is the most appropriate next step? ECGﺖﻧﺎﻛ ST-elevation V2-V5
A. Give IV magnesium
B. Do CT angiography
C. Urgent coronary angiography
D. Give thrombolytic medication
645- A Patient with Fatigue, Recurrent ureteric stones and bone pain Ca: 3.50 mmol Parathyroid adenoma: 2cm
parathyroid adenoma What's Most Appropriate NEXT Step In Management?
A. Bisphosphonate
B. Calcitonin
C. Increase calcium diet
D. Parathyroidectomy
646- TLS patient with nausea, palpitations and muscle weakness, what’s causing it?
A- Hyperkalemia
B- Hypocalcemia
C- Hyperuricemia
D- Hypomagnesmia
647- TLS patient with nausea, palpitations and muscle weakness & Ache , what’s causing it?
A- Hyperkalemia
B- Hypocalcemia
C- Hyperuricemia
D- Hypomagnesmia
648- elderly hypertensive man presents with acute onset of ataxia, ipsilateral facial sensory loss, dysphagia, Horner’s
syndrome, and contralateral lower limb weakness. Which of the following arteries is most likely affected?
A. PICA
B. AICA
C. Anterior cerebellar
D. Basilar
649- 10y/o (I’m not sure about the age) with cystic fibrosis asking when to screen for T1DM ?
A. HA1C Every 6m
B. Fasting blood glucose annually
C. No need to screen until equal or more than 18
D. OGTT annually

650- There was patient with clinical scenario of alzeheimer's prescribed donepezil FULL IMPROVEMENT AFTER 6
months BUT STILL HAVE VISUAL HALLUCINATIONS Asking how to adjust his meds:
A. ADD quetiapine
B. ADD amitryptaline
C. Switch donepezil to rivastigmine
Q: 63-year-old man presents with multiple psychiatric symptoms, including prominent visual hallucinations. He started on
donepezil, which improved his cognition but visual hallucinations persist. what to add?
A. Sertraline
B. Quetiapine
C. Amitriptyline
D. Stop donepezil
Answer: B
Q: There was patient with clinical scenario of alzeheimer's prescribed donepezil but No Improvement Was Noticed for 6
Months months. His MMSE Was 19 And Now Is 12. Asking how to adjust his meds:
(Literally Said No Improvement , Not Little , Not Incomplete)
A. Add Setraline
B. Add Memantine
C. Switch Donepezil To Memantine
D. Switch Donepezil To Rivastigmine
Answer: C. Switch Donepezil To Memantine
651- infant came with 4 times watery diarrhea , no fever , systemic unremarkable Your management?
A- give ORS
B- Admit for IV Normal Saline
C- Stool Culture
D- Medication (I Don’t Recall It’s Name)
Q: paediatric with watery diarrhea and vomiting what investigation to do stool antigen another was culture
652- infant (3M)with signs of pneumonia and in examination there was bilateral crepitations ,he was dehydrated and
distressed,no vital signs given
A -Iv antibiotic and chest x-ray
B -suction,hydration ,low rate O2
653- pt with HTN,dylipedimia Came with TIA for 30 minutes Echo:Carotid stenosis 48% Most appropriate
Management ?
A- Observe
B- Carotid endarterectomy
C- Carotid Stent

Q: Patient presents after 30 minutes of slurred speech that resolved, no trauma or drug use or fever. Carotid shows
stenosis 48% Best management besides controlling risk factors?
A- Observe
B- Carotid stenting
C- Carotid thrombectomy
D- Carotid endarterectomy
654- pt with ST elevation and previous stroke Most appropriate management?
A -CTA
B -coronary angi
C-thrombolysis
655- Young lady with back pain , numbness , sudden loss of vision and spontaneous resolve. Image show : demyelination
at different sites Diagnosis???
A. Multiple sclerosis
656- long scenario about an elderly who had colectomy, and post operation he had dehydration and increased skin
turgor with postural hypotension. ABG results: PH 7.8 (high) HCO3 48 (high) PCO2 44 (high) PO2 (low) What is your
interpretation?
A. Uncompensated metabolic alkalosis
B. Compensated metabolic & respiratory alkalosis
C. Respiratory alkalosis with metabolic compensation
D. Metabolic alkalosis with respiratory compensation
657- A previously healthy 55-year-old man undergoes elective right hemicolectomy for a stage I (T2N0M0) cancer of the
cecum. His postoperative ileus is somewhat prolonged, and on the fifth postoperative day his nasogastric tube is still in
place. Physical examination reveals diminished skin turgor, dry mucous membranes, and orthostatic hypotension.
Pertinent laboratory values are as follows: What is the patient’s acid–base abnormality?
a. Uncompensated metabolic alkalosis
b. Respiratory acidosis with metabolic compensation
c. Combined metabolic and respiratory alkalosis
d. Metabolic alkalosis with respiratory compensation
658- Pediatric patient with recurrent UTI. Mother says she does not remember if any investigations were done. Came
with dysuria, Investigations showed positive nitrate, leukocytes. What is the most indicated investigation?
A- Voiding cystourethrogram
B- Renal US
C- Voiding cystourethrogram and Renal US
D- KUB US
Child, I think six month, diagnosed with UTI, parent ask for further assessment, which of the following initial?
A. DMSA

B. Renal ultrasound
C. CT ABDOMEN
D. MCUG
659- 4 years old complaining of recurrent infections ( 6 sinopulmonary and recurrent gastroenteritis and more than 4
giardiasis upon and his brother died 5 months due to sepsis upon examination all lymph nodes are not palpable Which
of the following is the diagnosis?
a) Omens’s syndrome
b) forgot
c) X-linked agammanglobulinemia
d) Severe combined immune deficiency
Q: A 6-month-old infant presents with recurrent pneumonia, chronic diarrhea, and otitis media. Laboratory evaluation
reveals normal T-cell counts and undetectable levels of IgG, IgM, and IgA. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID)
B. X-linked (Bruton) Agammaglobulinemia
660- 45-year-old man with recurrent episodes of schizophrenia is on maintenance therapy to maintain suppression of
symptoms, prevent relapse, improve quality of life, and support engagement in psychosocial therapy. Which of the
following is the best outcome following the maintenance therapy?
A. Complete resolution
B. 5% will achieve remission
C. 70% will have a satisfactory quality of life
D. 33% obtain long-lasting symptom reduction
661- 62-year-old patient presented with vaginal bleeding. Investigations revealed a malignant tumor of uterine fundus.
Which of the following groups of lymph nodes is likely affected in this condition and to be dissected during surgery?
A. Superficial inguinal
B. Deep inguinal
C. Internal iliac
D. Para-aortic
662- thyroid case TSH normal Ultrasound : 4×4 cm Besthesda classified = 0 FNA done but Inaccurate What the next?
A) Thyroid scan
B) repeat FNA
C) total thyroidectomy
663- A 34-year-old woman is evaluated for history of galactorrhea, worsening fatigue, malaise and irregular excessive
menses for the last 5 months. She complains of headaches that occur about 2 to 3 times per week. Her physical
examination is unremarkable. Pregnancy test was negative (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate management?
Blood pressure 120/86 mmHg Heart rate 62 /min Respiratory rate 13/min BMI 28 kg/m2 Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone
16 0.4 - 5.0 pU/mL Thyroxine (T4 free serum) 9.2 8.5 - 15.2 pmol/L Prolactin 500 < 652 pmol/L (Male) < 870 pmol/L
(Female) Human chorionic gonadotropin 0.0 < 5 miU/mL
A. Begin cabergoline
B. Begin levothyroxine

C. Order pituitary MRI
D. Observation and retest thyroid function test in 6 months
664- A 30-year-old woman P1+0 presented to Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinic complains of inability to conceive for the
last 3 years. During that time, she was not on contraceptive and her menstrual periods every 45 days but no period for
the last 6 months (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Test Result Normal Values Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone 9.2 U/L 0.4 - 5.0 jU/L Follicular phase 5-20 IU/. Mid cycle
peak 15-35 IU/L Follicle-stimulating hormone 5.3 qU/L Luteal phase 5-15 lU/L Postmenopausal women 50-100 1U/L
Men 5-20 IU/L Men 3-15 U/L Luteinizing hormone 7.2 U/L Follicular phase 5-22 U/L Luteal phase 5-22 U/L Ovulatory
phase 30-250 U/L Postmenopausal Women > 30 U/L Prolactin 140 ng/ml < 25 ng/ml
A. Hypothyroidism
B. Hypopituitarism
C. Hyperprolactinemia
D. Polycystic ovary syndrome
665- A 61-year-old woman is evaluated for a left pulmonary nodule that was discovered incidentally 2 months ago. She is
currently asymptomatic and has not had shortness of breath, fever, chills, weight loss, or night sweats. Medical history is
otherwise unremarkable, and she takes no medications. She never smoked. Examination revealed no cervical or
supraclavicular lymphadenopathy, and the lungs are clear to auscultation (see report). CT scan chest: Showed an 8 mm
left lung nodule. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. PET/CT scan
B. Bronchoalveolar lavage
C. Transthoracic lung biopsy
D. Observation and regular follow-up
666- A 40-year-old woman presents with pain and swelling of the hands with early morning stiffness for 3 months. She
has photosensitivity, hair loss, difficulty climbing stairs, and Raynaud's phenomenon. Examination reveals active
arthritis at the second and third proximal interphalangeal joints, malar rash, and healed ulcers at the tip of the second
finger. Proximal muscle strength is 3/5 (see lab results). Antinuclear antibody (ANA titer 1: 2540) Which of the following
antibodies will most likely confirm the diagnosis?
A. Anti-Smith (SM)
B. Anti-ribonucleoprotein (RNP)
C. Anti-double stranded DNA (anti-ds DNA)
D. Anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP)
667- A 75-year-old man with COPD presented with acute exacerbation due to super-added pneumonia. He was managed
with IV fluids, antibiotics, nebulized salbutamol, and nasal oxygen at 4 L/min. A few hours later, he started to become
drowsy (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate immediate management?
A. Noninvasive ventilation
B. Nebulized Ipratropium
C. Reduce inspired oxygen concentration
D. Increase the frequency of nebulized salbutamol
668- A 32-year-old man with HIV presents to the clinic for follow-up. He is generally doing well. However, Mantoux
tuberculin test (PPD) after 48 hours is 6 mm. His chest radiography (CXR) is unremarkable. Which of the following is
the best preventative measure for this patient?
No need for preventive treatment
Isoniazid and pyridoxine for 9 months

Isoniazid and pyridoxine for 3 months
Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol for 9 months
669- A 29-year-old nurse is evaluated in the clinic for employment contract renewal. She is asymptomatic, and her
clinical examination is unremarkable. Her laboratory tests are within normal range. Her skin purified protein derivative
(PPD) test after 48 hours is 12 mm. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. No intervention is required
B. Isoniazid 300 mg daily for 3 months
C. Isoniazid 300 mg daily for 6 months
D. Isoniazid, rifampin, and ethambutol for 6 months
670- A young man who is sexually active is evaluated in the clinic for clinical features that suggest gonorrhea. Which of
the following tests is the most appropriate to establish the diagnosis?
A. Blood culture
B. Urinary culture
C. Urethral swabs
D. Vesicular rash swabs
671- A 35-year-old woman is complaining of vaginal discharge and burning with urination. Her husband was recently
diagnosed with gonorrhea. Which of the following tests has the highest diagnostic value?
A. Urine culture
B. Anogenital swab
C. Endocervical swab
D. High vaginal swab
672- A 55-year-old man known to have psychiatric disease and hypertension was admitted to the hospital due to poor
nutrition at home, as he was refusing food. During hospitalization, he became agitated, so they increased the dose of
Haloperidol. Suddenly, he became confused and began sweating. He was shifted to the ICU, started on IV fluids, and
intubated (see lab result). Which of the following should be added to the management plan?
A. Naloxone
B. Glucagon
C. Meropenem
D. Bromocriptine
673- A 35-year-old woman who had an uncomplicated vaginal delivery 2 weeks ago presented to the Emergency Room
complaining of chest pain for 1 day, associated with exertional shortness of breath, no cough, no fever, no orthopnea, and
no PND. Examination revealed an ill-looking woman (see reports). Pulmonary function test: FEV1 90% (80%-120%)
FVC 95% (80%-120%) TLC 95% (80%-120%) DLCO 40% (60%-120%) Which of the following is the most likely cause
of her shortness of breath?
A. Pneumonia
B. Heart failure
C. Acute bronchitis
D. Pulmonary embolism

674- A 69-year-old man complains of shortness of breath and weight loss for the last 6 months. He has a 40-pack-year
smoking history and no TB or HIV risk factors (see reports). Chest X-ray: A large left-sided pleural effusion.
Thoracentesis: 1,500 mL of bloody fluid that is strongly exudative by Light's criteria. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step?
A. Empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics
B. CT chest with contrast
C. Blind pleural biopsy
675- A 32 years old female presented with severe pelvic pain and hypotension after MVA. CT: showed pelvic hematoma
and active bleeding. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Emergency laparotomy
B. Transfusion of pRBCs
C. IV fluids and observation
Q: Female patient after MVA presented to the ED She is hypotensive 90/50 CT showed pelvic hematoma and deep
internal active bleed What is the most appropriate management
A. Blood transfusion
B. Ex. Lap
676- A 55 year old non-smoker male present to the clinic, his blood pressure was 140/90 at multiple visits to the clinic.
When measured at home it never exceeded 130/85. He is not known to have any disease, not on any medications. Many
labs were given, all within normal range (kidney function, CBC, A1C). Lipid profile was not presented. What is his CVD
risk?
A- Low risk
B- High risk
C- Intermediate risk
D- Risk cannot be identified
677- A child presented to the OPD with persistent purulent nasal discharge and low grade fever for 12 days. On
examination: No periorbital swelling or restricted EOM. There is tenderness on the frontal bone. What is the
appropriate management?
A. Supportive and symptomatic
B. Oral amoxicillin
C. Nasal corticosteroids
D. Sinuses x-ray
Q: A child presents with chronic nasal congestion, purulent nasal discharge, facial pressure, postnasal drip, and chronic
cough lasting for more than 12 weeks. There is no acute fever. The clinician suspects chronic sinusitis. Which of the
following is the best test to confirm the diagnosis?
A. CT scan of the sinuses
678- A patient presented to the ED after he was stabbed in his chest. Upon examination he had hypotension, tachycardia,
muffled heart sounds, and distended neck veins. Lungs were clear bilaterally. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Myocardial contusion

B. Hemothorax
C. Tension pneumothorax
D. Cardiac tamponade
Q: Patient with MVA came with muffled heart sound . Bp 90/60
Diagnosis?
A cardiac contusion
B. Pneumothorax
C. Cardiac tamponade
D. Heamothorax
679- A 35-week pregnant woman presents with vaginal bleeding. Ultrasound shows placenta previa covering the os
completely. She was stabilized, and the bleeding stopped. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Induce labor
B. Do cesarean section immediately
C. Wait until 37 weeks, then do cesarean section
D. Wait until 37 weeks for labor
680- A pediatric patient in the PICU on mechanical ventilation due to sepsis-related respiratory failure. What can we do
regarding mechanical ventilation to prevent ventilator-induced lung injury?
A. Zero positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) to prevent barotrauma
B. Increase tidal volume with carbon dioxide reserve
C. Hyperventilation to washout CO2
D. Low tidal volume to maintain permissive hypercapnia
681- A child presents with periorbital eye swelling, hematuria, and hypertension 3 weeks after impetigo. ASO positive.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Membranous nephropathy
B. IgA nephropathy
C. Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis
682- An 8 year old boy is brought to the clinic by his mother. She is concerned of bed wetting overnight despite toilet
training and compared to his sister when she was in his age with good control. Which of the following pelvic muscles is
affected and possible target therapy?
A. Rectus
B. Detrusor
C. Perianal
D. Pelvic floor
683- A woman planning for conception presented to the clinic concerned about vitamin D deficiency. She is dark skinned
and vegetarian, and does not get adequate exposure to sunlight. What is the recommended daily dose of vitamin D?
A. 600 IU
B. 1000 IU
C. 2000 IU

D. 4000 IU
684- A 9-month-old infant has never received any vaccinations. What should be given at this visit?
A) BCG, Hep B
B) BCG, PCV, Measles, Hep B
C) DTaP-1, OPV-1, Measles, MCV4
D) BCG, Hep B, OPV-1, Dtap-1, Measles
Q: Mother brought his 9 month child to well baby clinic he didn't receive any previous vaccine, his
mother believes fact that the vaccine will harm his child, after she read and educated about the
benefits of the vaccination then convinced, she told to the physician just give my child the necessary
vaccination Which of the following are the necessary vaccinations to his age oth month:
A. DTaP,BCag
B. DTaP, BCG, IPV , OPV
C. DTaP, measles, BCG, Hep B, OPV
D. DTaP, measles, MCV 4, OPV
685- A full-term neonate boy presented with spontaneous soft tissue bleeding and joint swelling suggestive of
hemarthrosis. Laboratory investigations showed a normal platelet count and a normal prothrombin time (PT), but the
activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) was prolonged. A mixing study was performed, and the aPTT failed to
correct after mixing with normal plasma. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Factor VIII deficiency
B. Bernard-Soulier syndrome
C. Neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia
D. Maternal autoantibodies lead to acquired hemophilia
686- A 75 year old female K/C of Afib and recent unintentional weight loss, presented to the ER with severe abdominal
pain that is described as out of proportion, on examination the abdomen was soft but tender with decreased bowel
sound.
A. Lactate levels
B. X ray of the abdomen
C. Abdominal ultrasound
D. Abdominal CT angiography
687- A 4-week-old infant presents with projectile, non-bilious vomiting that frequently contains clotted milk. After
vomiting, the child still seems to be hungry. Which of the following is the appropriate diagnostic test?
A. Abdominal X ray
B. Upper endoscopy
C. Abdominal ultrasound
Q: Child with non bilious vomiting his mother saud he seems hungry after vomiting On PE : peristalsis shown , which of
the following ( most appropriate )investigations? Not next

A- stool culture
B- abdominal X-ray
C- upper GI endoscopy
D- Abdominal Ultrasound
Abdominal Ultrasound (Next Or Most Appropriate , All Are Same For Hypertrophic Pyloric Stenosis)
If There Is BILIOS Vomiting ➔ Upper GI Contrast Study
688- A 19 years old primigravida complaining of abdominal cramps and vaginal spotting. LMP 6 weeks ago with a
positive home pregnancy test. Speculum examination closed os and abdominal pain with cervical manipulation. What’s
the appropriate next step?
A. CBC
B. Transvaginal assessment
C. CT Abdomen
D. Further deeper vaginal examination to rule out masses
689- A patient with history of chronic intermittent claudication presented with sudden onset of acute limb ischemia.
What is the most appropriate initial diagnostic test?
A. Doppler US
B. CT Angio
C. ABI
690- A woman underwent colectomy with good recovery. Upon discharge the doctor gave her 4 weeks of sick leave. She
mentions that a friend who had the same surgery received 6 weeks of sick leave and requests an extension. What is the
most appropriate response?
A. See her after 2 weeks to assess her recovery
B. Tell her the standard duration is 4 weeks
C. Give her 6 weeks of sick leave
D. Talk to her employer for longer sick leave
691- A 20-year-old primigravida in her first trimester is a heavy smoker. You advise her about the risks of smoking
during pregnancy, but she refuses to quit. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Inform her father
B. Inform her mother
C. Join her to a smoking cessation support group

D. Nicotine replacement therapy
Q: 20-year-old primigravida in her first trimester is a heavy smoker. You advise her about the risks of smoking during
pregnancy. She has not thought about quitting. What is the most appropriate next step?
A- Inform her father
B- Inform her mother
C- Join her to a smoking cessation support group
D- Nicotine replacement therapy
692- A 32-year-old patient became pregnant through in-vitro fertilization. She is now 7 weeks pregnant and is scheduled
for laparoscopic surgical excision of an ectopic pregnancy (see report). Ultrasound: Presence of a right-sided 4-cm
ectopic pregnancy. Which of the following is the most appropriate procedure?
A. Right-sided salpingotomy alone
B. Hysterectomy
C. Excision of both right and left tubes
D. Intraoperative methotrexate injection
693- Typical case of DKA. What is the most appropriate initial management? Y
A. Sodium bicarbonate
B. Subcutaneous insulin
C. IV fluids and regular insulin
Q: Very short case A patient presents with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Laboratory results show: Parameter Value
Blood glucose: 380 mg/dl pH 7.15 Bicarbonate 15 mEq/L. What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Intravenous bicarbonate
B. Subcutaneous insulin
C. IV fluids and regular insulin
694- A patient with cirrhosis due to Hepatitis C has a history of recurrent ascites despite repeated drainage. What is the
best dietary advice?
A. Sodium restriction less than 2 g per day
B. Fluid restriction less than 2 L per day
C. High protein diet restriction
D. High fat diet restriction
Q: A patient with liver cirrhosis due to hepatitis C has esophageal varices and altered cognitive function (confused and
lethargic) following attack of hematemesis
The patient is inquiring about which nutrient should be restricted?
A) Fat
B) Proteins
C) Carbohydrates
D) Minerals and vitamins.

Q: A child with liver cirrhosis due to autoimmune hepatitis, what food should he avoid?
A. Protein
B. Carbohydrates
C. Fat
D. Minerals and vitamins
Ascites = salt restriction
Hepatic encephalopathy avoid protein to excrete ammonia
Hepatitis/liver cirrhosis/ autoimmune hepatitis without encephalopathy = fat
695- Long term management of X-linked Severe combined immunodeficiency?
A. Bone Marrow transplant
B. Or immunoglobulin monthly
696- A 30-year-old primigravida presents to the Emergency Room complaining of vaginal spotting for the last few days,
her history reveals irregularity of the menstrual cycles and that she has been trying to conceive for the last 3 years.
Abdominal examination reveals tenderness in the lower abdomen and the pelvic examination reveals a closed cervical Os
with cervical motion tenderness (see lab results). Blood pressure 110/70 mmg Heart rate 105 /min Temperature 36.6 °C
Weight 60 kg Height 160 cm Test Result Normal Values Hb 130 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) HCT 038
0.42-0.52 (Male) 0.37-0.48 (Female) MCH 19 28-33 pg/cell MCHC 330 320-360 g/L. MCV 85 80-95 fl Platelets count 155
150-400 x 109/L WBC 4.6 4.5-10.5 × 109/L Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Perform an abdominal ultrasound of the pelvis
B. Confirm the patients pregnancy status
C. Know about the reason of infertility
D. Administer strong analgesia
697- 55-year-old man with liver cirrhosis on regular follow-up presents to the Emergency Room with a 2-day history of
decreased level of consciousness and increased abdominal girth. Examination reveals an ill and cachectic patient with
tense ascites and lower limb pitting edema bilaterally. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Loop diuretics
B. Start diuretic and spironolactone
C. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS)
D. Therapeutic paracentesis
Q: pt with ascites best diuretics
A .spironolactone

B. Frusemide
698- A 55-year-old man with chronic hepatitis C present to the clinic for regular follow-up. His examination reveals a
palpable right upper quadrant mass. CT scan of his abdomen shows a large 6*6 cm mass in the right lobe of the liver. A
mass biopsy confirms the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. What is the most appropriate management steps at this
stage?
A. Start chemotherapy
B. Start radiotherapy
C. Referral for palliative medicine
D. Referral for surgical resection
Q: 4×4 HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA management?
A. chemotherapy
B. Radiotherapy
C. Surgery
699- A 60-year-old man is evaluated during a follow-up visit for management of newly diagnosed hypertension and
diabetes mellitus started on metformin and gliclazide but not started on antihypertensive therapy. Physical examination
is unremarkable (see lab results). Blood pressure 155/95 mmHg Heart rate 80 /min BMI 32.5 kg/m2 Test Result Normal
Values Blood urea nitrogen 5 2.8 to 8.9 mmol/L Creatinine 100 44-115 mol/L Random Glucose 6 3.9-5.5 mmol/L НА1C
6.9 4.7-5.6 % Protein Present absent Glucose Absent absent Which of the following is the most appropriate
antihypertensive treatment for this patient?
A. Lisinopril
B. Atenolol
C. Amlodipine
D. Hydrochlorothiazide
700- A 45-year-old woman, a smoker for 18 years, presented with exertional shortness of breath and a chronic cough for
5 months. She is also known to have long-standing rheumatoid arthritis. Chest examination revealed increased AP
diameter with hyperresonance all over the chest and scattered crackles (see report). Pulmonary function test: Increase in
total lung capacity and residual volume. FEV1 60% with no change post-bronchodilator. Which of the following is the
most likely diagnosis?
A. Lung fibrosis
B. Emphysema
C. Bronchiectasis
D. Allergic pneumonitis
701- A 55-year-old man presented with a productive cough for 3 months. He had a similar attack of chronic cough for
the previous 2 years. He smokes 1 pack/day for the last 15 years. Examination revealed an obese patient with scattered
wheeze and crackles over the lungs. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Bronchiectasis
B. Bronchial asthma
C. Pulmonary fibrosis
D. Chronic bronchitis
702. A child presents with symptoms of celiac disease and has positive anti-tTG IgA and positive anti-endomysial
antibody (EMA). Which of the following is considered the definitive diagnostic test?

A. No further testing needed
B. Duodenal biopsy
C. HLA typing
D. Repeat serology in 6 months
703. A baby with hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemia was diagnosed with congenital adrenal hyperplasia
due to 21 hydroxylase deficiency. What is the most appropriate next step ?
A. Oral hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone
B. IV hydrocortisone and isotonic normal saline
C. Sodium bicarbonate and insulin
Q: A child with 21 congenital adrenal hyperplasia ( diagnosis was written) presents with hyponatremia, hyperkalemia,
and metabolic acidosis. What is the most appropriate initial management ?
A. Hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone
B. IV fluids and IV hydrocortisone
704. A 6 years old boy came to the clinic with ecchymosis post viral URTI two weeks ago. He has no hepatosplenomegaly.
Labs showed low platelets. What is the most appropriate investigation to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Coagulation profile
B. Bone marrow aspirate
C. Blood film

705. A term baby, born to a diabetic mother with respiratory distress and desatting. He is macrosomic. What is the next
appropriate step?
A. Admit to NICU and monitor glucose
B. Intubation and MV
C. Immediate surfactant therapy
D. Empirical antibiotic therapy
Q: A newborn delivered to a diabetic mother presents with respiratory distress and desaturation shortly after birth.
Physical examination is unremarkable except for signs of respiratory distress and macrosomia. What is the most
appropriate next step in management? Examiner 1: Just Desatting , No Numbers Examiner 2: Sat In 80s
A. Intubation and ventilation
B. NICU admission, glucose monitoring, and observation
C. Immediate surfactant therapy
D. Empirical antibiotic therapy
Q: just post Delivery a neonate of MAS present with Respiratory and de-sating ( Written like this, no Numbers). he is a
post-term or fullterm macrosomic baby of DM or GDM Mother. (note:no numbers or lab in the question) what is the
most appropriate next step ?
1.Intubation and ventilation
2.NICU admission and glucose monitoring
3.wait and reassess
706. tertiary hospital has 200 residents, the area has high burden TB, 40 residents developed TB. Calculate the risk ?
A. 5%
B. 10%
C. 20%
D. 30%
707. An infant (born at 28 weeks gestation) was on BIPAP for 2 months, she was off bipap and developed monophasic
wheeze. What is the diagnosis?
A. Laryngomalacia
B. Tracheomalacia due to prolonged intubation

Q: A 2-month-old premature infant born at 28 weeks gestation required CPAP and supplemental oxygen for 2 months.
When transitioned to nasal cannula, the infant develops a monophasic expiratory wheeze. What is the most likely
diagnosis?
A) Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD)
B) Tracheomalacia due to prolonged airway support/intubation
C) Congenital subglottic stenosis
D) Laryngomalacia
708. A 25-year-old woman with a known diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) presents to the clinic for follow-up. She is in
remission and on teriflunomide. She reports transient worsening of her symptoms when exposed to heat. What is the
explanation for her symptoms?
A. Relapse of MS
B. Lhermitte sign
C. Uhthoff phenomenon
D. Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM)
709. A 56-year-old man presents to the Gastroenterology Clinic with frequent heartburn. He had upper GI endoscopy
and biopsy, which revealed Barrett's esophagus with low dysplasia. Which of the following is the best initial option in
management?
A. Esophageal resection
B. Pantoprazole
C. Ranitidine
D. Sucralfate
710. Young female with history of lack of sleep, decreased appetite, decreased concentration, loss of interest in activities
and isolation. Which of the following is the most concerning?
A) Loss of interest in previously interesting activity
B) Isolation and social withdrawal
C) Change in appetite and sleep
D) Decreased concentration
711. A 27 year old lady complaining of dysmenorrhea during menstruation. Now she start complaining of irritability,
insomnia and suicidal thoughts thet start before menstruation by 5 days. What is the diagnosis?
A. Bipolar
B. Generalized anxiety disorder
C. Perimenopausal depression
D. Premenstrual dysphoric disorder
712. An elderly female with DM and HTN is scheduled for elective surgery. BP 160/95 Glucose 9.1 mmol/L What would
you do?
A. Postpone her surgery for one month
B. Adjust her HTN and DM medications
C. X Ray Before Surgery
D. CBC & Electrolyte Before Surgery

713. A woman presents with brief, jerky movements of one arm. There is no loss of consciousness, and the episode lasts
only a few seconds. What is the most appropriate antiepileptic medication for management?
A. Valproic acid
B. Lamotrigine
C. Ethosuximide
D. Phenobarbital
714. A child complaining of constipations. On examination there was decreased anal sphincter tone and dilated rectum
with fecal impaction. Family was asking how to prevent this from reoccurrence:
A) Good toilet habits
B) High-fiber diet
C) Long-term laxatives
715. A child previously diagnosed with HSP presents with new-onset abdominal pain, bilateral ankle swelling, and
hematuria with proteinuria on urinalysis. There is also a family history of SLE. What is the most likely cause of his
current presentation?
A. Early nephritis due to systemic lupus erythematosus
B. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)
C. Expected with HSP due to systemic vasculitis
D. UTI
716. An elderly presents with fever, dysuria, and confusion. High BP Na 132 Ca ? Positive leukocytes in urine. Which of
the following will most likely reverse the neurological symptoms?
A. Correction of hyponatremia
B. Calcium gluconate
C. IV fluids
D. Proper antibiotics
Q: 71 years old women present to ER complaining of fever disuria and suprabupic pain , His symptoms started 1 day
ago but
now after admission he developed confusion and disoriented to time place person and did not know where is she
Vital: High temperature , BP mentioned
Urinalysis shows
Positive nitrites
Positive leukocyte esterase
High Neutrophil(WBC)
Investigations show:
Calcium 1.97 mmol/L
Sodium 132 mmol/L
BUN 11 mmol/L
Random glucose 11 mmol

Brain MRI show: mild cortical atrophy
Which of the following will reverse his neurological symptoms?
A. Correction of hyponatremia
B. Calcium gluconate
C. IV fluids and monitoring
D. proper antibiotics
717. A primigravida at 38 weeks gestation presented with irregular contractions. Upon assessment she had 4 cm cervical
dilation, -2 station, intact membranes, and normal CTG. Three hours later there was no change and she was still having
mild irregular contractions. What is the appropriate management?
A. Oxytocin
B. Amniotomy
C. Ask her to come later when she is in active labor
Q: Women in labor 1 cm dilated with irregular contraction evaluated for 3 hours with no Progression
A. Amniotomy
B. Send her home and come back if ready ( not by word but something like that)
C. Induction of labor
718. A 25 year old man presented to the Emergency Department after a motor vehicle accident. Initially he was stable
then he lost consciousness. Dilated pupils were noted on examination. GCS was 8/15. CT brain shows convex hematoma
in the temporal region. What is the appropriate management?
A. Emergency craniotomy
B. High-flow oxygen
C. High-dose steroids?
D. Shunt

Q: Patient presents by ambulance and was intubated in the area initially was conscious then become unresponsive CT
scan of brain was performed after resuscitation shows convex hematoma. Which of the following is the most appropriate
treatment?
A) Mannitol
B) Hyperventilation
C) Craniotomy
719. A 45 year old woman presented to the Emergency Department after a motor vehicle accident with confusion,
headache, and left-sided weakness. GCS is 14/15. CT brain showed a subdural hematoma. What is the most appropriate
next step?
A. Immediate neurosurgical intervention
B. High-flow oxygen
C. High-dose steroids?
720. A 65 year old man presented to the Emergency Department with signs of lateralization and GCS 7/15. CT brain
shows a 13 mm hematoma with midline shift. The patient was intubated and resuscitated. What is the appropriate
management?
A. Emergency craniotomy and hematoma evacuation
B. IV Mannitol
C. ICU admission and observation
721. He has difficulty maintaining sleep for the last 3 months. His irregular sleep pattern was documented in his diary. I
forgot the exact stem but it was like what is the most appropriate advise for his sleep health?
A. CBT for insomnia
B. Encourage caffeine in the afternoon
C. Regular sleep schedule and limit screen time
D. Sedative
722. 25 y/o has difficulty with sleep, sleepy on afternoons. Work on his computer programming at night, has irregular
sleep schedule. What to do?
A- CBT for insomnia
B- Regular sleep schedule and limit screen time
723.
Answer: C , Calcineurin Inhibitors
724. A female pregnant at 23 weeks gestation came to antenatal clinic all previous pregnancy uncomplicated, her mother
have T2DM and she is asking about GDM screening?

A- Hemoglobin A1C at this visit
B- Random blood sugar at this visit
C- 75g oral glucose tolerance test at 28-32 weeks
D- 3-hour glucose tolerance test at 28-32 weeks
725. A child present with 6 adenotonsillitis after starting kindergarten. mother reports snoring and mouth breathing. On
examination there is grade 3 tonsils. What is the next step in management? No Mention Of Daytime Symptoms
A. Refer for adenotonsillectomy
B. Sleep study
726. A patient is known to have a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and has a cyanosis, irregular heart rhythm.S3 gallop.
What is the most common cause of deterioration in this case?
A) Infection
B) Arrhythmia
C) Increase in the size of the PDA
727. 70 or 80 female has post menopausal bleeding for 8 months . I dont remember if next step or most appropriate or
highest diagnostic?
A. cervical biopsy
B. endometrial biopsy
Q: 60 female has post menopausal bleeding for 8 months what confirm diagnosis
A. Cervical biopsy
B. Endometrial biopsy
C. Vaginal exam
728. 22 years old female coming for annual care. She is has no complaint” written like this “, married for 2 years , on
OCP, have depression on fluoxetine, no family history of cancer or cardiac disease. What screening should be done at
this time?
A-pap smear
B-mammogram
C-i forgt
D-pelvic ultrasound
Q: female recently married, she is 23-24 (anyway more than 21), otherwise normal, what is screening or health
promotion now:
A. Pap smear
B. Mammo
Q: A 20-year-old divorced woman came for a Pap test. When is it recommended?
A. Now
B. After 1 year

C. After 3 years
D. If she becomes symptomatic
729. So they want the number of cases to determine burden per day and determine the extreme values What is the
measure of Central tendency can be used ?
A- mean
B- median
C- mode
D- range
730. A long case , about statics It was all Info , about cohort study , given : mean (can't remember wallahi guys ),
standard deviation 6 Asking about appropriate best measure of central tendency to use ?
A.Mean
B.Median
C.Mode
D.Range
731. high lead exposure area, 50 children were selected, which of the following can assess the degree of lead exposure of
each individual?
A. mean
B. mode
C. median
D. Standard deviation
732. An epidemiologist wants to calculate the number of cases of a specific disease that come to the city. He gave me 14
different numbers. The main point of the question is to find out how many cases come over different periods of time.
A- Mean
B- Mode
C- Median
D- Range
733. A 46-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Room with back pain for 3 weeks associated with fever. She was
sent home with NSAIDs and bed rest recommendations but returned after 2 days with the inability to move her legs.
Examination revealed a febrile patient with tenderness in the mid-back and upper motor neuron signs in the lower limbs
associated with weakness 3/5 (see lab results and report). MRI spine: Diffuse discitis in T6 vertebrae. Which of the
following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Tuberculin (PPD) test
B. Brucella titers
C. Biopsy of T6 vertebrae
D. Perform a bone marrow aspiration for culture
734. A 2-year-old girl with fever and dysuria; treated for urinary tract infection 6 months ago. How to reduce risk of
recurrent UTIs?

A) Increase daily fruit juice intake
B) Start long-term antibiotic prophylaxis
C) Proper perianal cleaning and hygiene
D) Toilet training and preventing constipation
735. A 2-year-old girl with fever and dysuria; treated for urinary tract infection 6 months ago. How to reduce risk of
recurrent UTIs?
A) Increase daily fruit juice intake
B) Start long-term antibiotic prophylaxis
C) Proper perianal cleaning and hygiene
736. Child complaining of nasal purulent discharge, eye pain, periorbital swelling and severe headache. On examination
there is frontal bone tenderness and restricted extraocular movements. What is the most appropriate?
A) Oral amoxicillin
B) Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan
C) Reassurance
D) Refer to ear, nose, and throat (ENT)
737. child with a history of egg allergy is scheduled to receive the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine and the
influenza vaccine. What is the most appropriate management?
A) Give both vaccines
B) Give MMR but not influenza
C) Give influenza but not MMR
D) Do not give either vaccine
Q: child with a history of egg allergy is scheduled to receive the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine and the
influenza vaccine. What is the most appropriate management?
A) Give MMR but not influenza
B) Give both and observe
C) Give influenza but not MMR
D) Do not give either vaccine
738. Newborn of diabetic mother with jittery movements. What to check for?
A) Sodium
B) Calcium
C) Magnesium
D) Blood glucose

739. 4 month old infant previously had kernicterus with neurological sequelae. What is the expected finding in
examination?
A. Spastic
B. dyskinetic
C. hypotonic
D. Ataxic
Q: A baby (No Age) with kernicterus and has neurological sequelae. What you will expect on his motor examination?
A. Spasticity
B. Ataxia
C. Hypotonia
D. Dyskinesia
740. A child with symptoms suggestive of functional constipation. Which of the following supports the diagnosis?
A. Infrequently hard stool with soiling
B. Sacral dimple and loss of anal tone
C. Normal intake and two stools per day
741. A patient presented after a road-traffic accident with severe injuries. He was unconscious with a GCS of 6.
Examination revealed significant instability as well as multiple fractures and other injuries. The patient was hypotensive
and tachycardic. What is the Most Appropriate management?
A. Apply a pelvic binder
B. Emergency exploratory laparotomy
742. Medium age present with pelvic injury followed by mva Ct showed multiple pelvic injury with severe hematoma
and hypotensive patient. What’s Next appropriate management after fluid resuscitation?
A-Nasogastric tube
B-Emergency laparotomy
C-Blood transfusion
D-Pelvic binder
Q: Patient presented to the ER with pelvic fracture, CT scan show: he is actively bleeding with a large hematoma in the pelvis, his
BP = 80/50 (or something near to this). Management?
A- Emergency laparotomy
B- Transfuse packed red blood cells
C- Pelvic binder
D- Reassess (not sure something like this)
743.

744.A child presents with a 4-day history of dark urine and jaundice that was preceded by diarrhea. Some children in
his school have similar symptoms. Lab tests show elevated liver enzymes. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Rehydration and rest
B. Acyclovir .
C. Antibiotics
Q: A four-year-old child presented to the pediatric ER with a four-day history of dark urine and jaundice preceded by
diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. She’s attending a daycare school where multiple episodes with kids have been reported.
ALT was 600. AST was 500 high. What is the most indicated management?
A.Immediate liver transplant
B Rest and hydration
C Acylovir
D Rabivirne
745. A pregnant woman in active labor presents with signs of obstructed labor and fetal distress. She is counseled for an
emergency cesarean section but she refuses the procedure and requests a second opinion. What is the most appropriate
next step in managing this situation?
A. Take consent from the father
B. Try to persuade her with CS against her will
C. Respect her refusal and request for a second opinion
D. Consent from both the mother and father is required before proceeding
Q: A 42-week pregnant woman is admitted to delivery. Her pregnancy has been uncomplicated. During labor,
cardiotocography (CTG) monitoring shows fetal distress with a baseline heart rate of 130/min and absent variability.

The doctor decides that an emergency cesarean section is necessary for the well-being of the baby to prevent fetal
asphyxia and death. However, the mother refuses the CS and requests a second opinion. What should the doctor do?
A. The Husband is now the representative
B. Respect her wishes and wait for a the second opinion
C. Attempt to persuade her against her will
D. Second opinion requires both consents, or else not needed in emergency situations
Q: A pregnant woman in labor is told that a vaginal delivery is dangerous for the fetus and a C-section is necessary. The
patient understands the risks but refuses the surgery and insists on a vaginal delivery. What should the doctor do?
A. Refer her to the psychiatric department.
B. Sedate her and perform the C-section.
C. Respect her decision.
D. Obtain consent from her husband
Q:Patient couldn't go through spontaneous vaginal delivery, and the fetus is in distress, doctor want to do cesarean
section, but the patient refused and wanted second opinion?
A. try to persuade her against her well
B. father opinion have priority
C. wait for second opinion
D: Take consent from her and the husband that they refused the medical advice for urgent c/s
Q: Ptn diagnosis with ...... by the primary physician he prescribed drugs for her 1 or 2-week ago, little improvement, she
not
convince or satisfied (forget the exactword) with diagnosis, and she want to see another specialist as 2nd opinion, what
should the physician do
A- refuse her request
B- advic ptn to trust the treatment
C- offer her referral to another physician

746. A Female Patient Returned From A Trip To The Cold Mountains And Developed Chest Pain For The Past 3 Days.
ECG Shows Diffuse ST-Segment Elevation. What Is The Most Likely Etiologic Agent?
A. Echovirus
B. Epstein-Barr Virus
C. Herpes Simplex Virus
D. Coxsackie Virus
747. 65-year-old man, a heavy smoker, known to have hypertension and COPD on Ventolin, Anoro Ellipta
(Umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol), and lisinopril, presents with worsening shortness of breath for 4 months. There has
been no change in his sputum amount or purulence, and he has had no fever, PND, or orthopnea. He was not admitted to
the hospital for more than a year. Examination reveals decreased breath sounds without added sounds (see lab results
and report). Chest CT 6 months ago: Diffuse emphysematous changes. Which of the following is the best intervention to
improve his shortness of breath?
A- Home oxygen
B- Add inhaled long-acting B agonist
C- Volume reduction surgery
D- Add inhaled corticosteroid
748. A 30-year-old married, nulligravid woman with symptomatic multiple uterine fibroids, all subserosal, underwent
myomectomy. According to her operative note, the endometrial cavity was entered during surgery. What is the risk of
placenta accreta during future pregnancies?
(A) Increase
(B) Decrease
(C) Unknown
(D) Not affected
749. A 7-month-old infant is brought to clinic with a 2-day history of vomiting and diarrhea. The stool is watery without
mucous or blood. examination reveals that the infant is only mildly dehydrated. Which of the following is the most
appropriate management?
A. ORS1, and cefixime
B. ORS and reassurance
C. Ant-emetcs and ORS
D. Ant-emetcs, and cotrimoxazole
750. A 4-year-old child with biliary atresia underwent a Kasai procedure. Postoperatively, he develops pruritus with
excoriations and has elevated serum bile acids (120 µmol/L). What is the most appropriate treatment for his pruritus?
A. Oral cholestyramine
B. Regular diphenhydramine
C. IV corticosteroids
D. High-dose vitamin K supplementation

751. A 39-year-old G8 P5126 at 38 weeks' gestation presents for induction of labor due to decreased fetal movement. She
is started on oxytocin and begins having contractions. After several hours of labor, her cervix dilates to 6 cm, but she
then develops a fever and fetal tachycardia. A diagnosis of chorioamnionitis is entertained. She delivers a baby boy
vaginally 4 hours later, but afterward, there is a large continuous vaginal bleeding. Which of the following is the most
likely cause of her bleeding?
A. Uterine atony
B. Placenta accreta
C. Cervical laceration
D. Vaginal laceration
752. A 30-year-old woman had a spontaneous vaginal delivery for a term twin pregnancy 2 hours ago. Now she has
active vaginal bleeding. Which of the following is the most likely cause of her bleeding?
A. Uterine atony
B. Coagulopathy
C. Genital tract trauma
D. Retained placental tissue
753. A 38-year-old woman, known for low-lying placenta, delivered a normal vaginal delivery. One hour post-delivery,
she had postpartum hemorrhage. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Coagulopathy
B. Uterine atony
C. Uterine inversion
D. Genital tract trauma
754. A 24-year-old woman just delivered her first baby with a birth weight of 2.7 kg while she was at 38 weeks of
gestation. She is not known to have any medical or surgical history. She has a heavy gush of bleeding postpartum. Which
of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Uterine atony
B. Cervical injury
C. Coagulation defects
D. Retained placental fragments
755. A 24-year-old woman primigravida undergoes an uneventful vaginal delivery at term. After placental delivery, she
has 1000 cc of vaginal bleeding. She is alert, and her vital signs are stable, with the uterus noted to be firm. Which of the
following is the most common cause?
A. Uterine atony
B. Coagulopathy
C. Genital tract laceration
D. Retained product of conception

756. A 33-year-old woman is seen post-delivery with postpartum hemorrhage. She had a forceps delivery of a 3.7 kg
baby. Examination revealed laceration of the cervix, vagina, and the perineal body. Which of the following is the most
likely cause of postpartum hemorrhage?
A. Coagulopathy
B. Uterine inversion
C. Genital tract trauma
D. Retained placental tissue
757. Woman had normal vaginal delivery 12 days ago , now she present with postpartum hemorrhage. Which of the
following is the most likely cause ?
A- Uterine atony
B- Retained product of conception
758. A man (around 27 years old ) presents to the ER after a motorcycle accident. He has multiple pelvic fractures,
vascular injuries and he is currently unconscious. What is the most appropriate initial management
A. Apply a pelvic binder
B. Give analgesia and IV fluids
C. Start broad-spectrum antibiotics
Q: RTA patient unstable , low bp The hip is unstable What is the initial step
A. Exploratory laparotomy
B. Open reduction
C. pelvic binder
D. CT abdomen
759. A couple undergoing infertility treatment with IVF. During the procedure, the husband died. What is the
appropriate management of the sperm samples stored in the laboratory?
A. Obtain consent from the husband’s family
B. Discard the sperm samples
C. Allow the wife to continue the procedure if a prior written consent exists
D. Missed
Q: Infetile couple came for Ivf in the mid of the process, the husband dies, embryo is there The mother want to proceed
and get pregnant Best action?
A. She can’t since the husband is dead
B. She can since the consent of the couple was taken
760. research about the relation between obesity and exercise, among 500 participant. 200 person started exercise 300
didn’t. it found out 30 of the active group got obese and 50 of the inactive group got obese calculate the OR ?

A- 0.4
B- 0.8
C- 1.2
D- forgot but it was wrong 0.2 ضا
761. Elderly man have progressive swallowing for solid and liquid Recently complain of epigastric pain and mild
tenderness in examination The option
A. H PYLORI
B. upper GI endo
762. 1 years old presented with lower weakness, noted by the mother. The abdominal and pelvic CT showed mass coming
from the paravertebral sympathetic chain. What is the diagnosis?
A- Neuroblastoma
B- Wilm’s tumor
C- Retinoblastoma
D- Hepatoblastoma
Q: Child with abdominal mass passing or related to spinal cord
A. Neuroblastoma
B. Williams
C. Hepatoblastoma
763. Asymptomatic Pregnant lady with urine culture positive for E coli but negative nitrate. What is the appropriate
action?
A- Antibiotics
B- Repeat urine analysis
C- Treat once become symptomatics
Q: Pregnant lady in 13 weeks gestation with urine culture positive for E coli 100.000 positive Nitrate She is
asymptomatic whats the appropriate action
A- antibiotics
B- repeat urine analysis
C- treat once become symptomatics
Q: Asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy ?
A-treat with antibiotics
B- just reassure

Q: Asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy screening 12 weeks, what to do?
A. Give Abx if symptomatic
B. Give Abx
Q:Postpartum woman found to have asymptomatic bacteriuria after delivery. Most
appropriate management?
A. IV antibiotics
C. No treatment
764. Patient with back pain, worsening at morning and improving within an hour after movement, positive schober test.
What examination should be done next?
A. Eye for Uveitis
B. CNS for weakness
C. CVS for mitral regurgitation
( ﮫﺑﻮﺠﻟاا ﻦﻣ ﻲﻓ ﻒﻠﺘﺨﺗ ﮫﺘﺑﻮﺟا ﺖﻧﺎﻛ ﺲﺑ investigation initial ﻰﻠﻋ ﺪﻤﺘﻋاوappendicitis ﺔﯿﻠﻤﻋ اﻮﺳ ﻲﻠﻟا ﻲﻟاﺆﺴﻟا ﮫﺒﺸﯾ نﺎﻛ لاﺆﺳ ﻲﻓ .765
> ﮫﯿﻧﺎﺛ هﺮﻣ ﮫﺛدﺎﺤﻟا عﻮﻗو ﻊﻨﻤﻧ نﺎﺸﻋ يﻮﺴﻧ ﺶﯾا ﮫﻧا ﺪﺼﻘﻤﻟا ﻮھ (ﻲﻘﻄﻨﻣ ﮫﺘﯿﺴﺣevaluation further for specialist to refers
766. A 6-year-old child with asthma is now complaining of cough, increased asthma attacks, and more frequent use of his
inhaler. The mother reports that the father smokes one pack per day inside the house, and the mother uses shisha on
weekends. What should be done to prevent worsening of the child’s symptoms?
A) Increase the dose of corticosteroids
B) Tell the mother to stop using shisha or reduce it
C) Advise the parents to reduce the child’s exposure to smoking
D) Use a face mask
767. A boy with a known history of asthma (not sure if this) presents to the clinic with cough and shortness of breath. His
father reports that he “never smokes in the same room as the child,” and therefore believes his smoking has no effect on
the boy’s health (something like that). What is the most appropriate counseling for this parent’s?
A. Advise him not to smoke at the same room with the child for their safety
B. Advise Him To Smoke Outside Of The House And [KEEP ON SMOKING HABIT] (Eee Wallah It Was Written Like
This)
C. Explain The Risk Of Second Hand Smoking That Linger His Child & Increase Asthma Risk (I Don’t Remember
What It Is , I Just Remember The Word “Linger” & Second Hand Smoking)
C??
768. Pt present 5 day after op with foul smelling greenish discharge from surgical wound What's the responsible
organism?
A. staphylococcus aureus
B. Streptococcus pyrogenes

C. Clostridium perferinges
D. Pseudomonas aeruginosa
769. male patient presented to the clinic worried regarding the possibility of melanoma, given a family history of
melanoma (his father)The patient has multiple benign nevi
A. reassurance
B. refer to dermatologist
770. An 18-year-old girl brought by her parents to the Gastroenterology Clinic as they noticed her to have a fine tremor
of both hands. Further examination showed jaundice and just palpable spleen (see lab results). Copper 0.81.72-3.54
mmol/L (Male) 1.72-3.76 mmol/L (Female) Direct bilirubin 22.32 1.5-6.5 mol/L Total bilirubin 38.23.5-16.5 mol/L
Aspartate aminotransferase 24312-40 IU/L Alanine aminotransferase 1655-40 IU/L Albumin 2334-56 g/L Total Proteins
46 60-84 cc Serum ceruloplasmin Low 24 hours urine copper High Which of the following is the most appropriate
treatment?
A. Corticosteroid
B. D-penicillamine
C. Desferrioxamine
D. Ursodeoxycholic acid
771. case of increasing incidence of acute gastroenteritis. 15 of 50 hospital staff had the same symptoms. After
preliminary interview, they all had food from the same restaurant before the symptoms appears. Which of the following
is the next step in outbreak...?
A- Isolate all affected individuals
B- Conduct Case-control study to identify common exposures
C- Quarantine the restaurant staff and assess their health status
D- Collect detailed data regarding the restaurant's food processing
772. A pregnant woman at 24 weeks of gestation is found to have a cervical length of 27 mm on transvaginal ultrasound.
What is the next step in management?
A. Cervical cerclage
B. Vaginal progesterone
C. Expectant management
D. Tocolytic
773. A colic baby with leg raise and crying ( there was no swaddling or white noise )
A- reassurance
B- tea
774. Mother of a 2-month-old infant complains that her baby has frequent episodes of excessive crying for 3 hours, raises
legs and passes gas. What is the appropriate management?
A. Simethicone drops
B. Swaddling and use of white noise

C. Antibiotics
D. US abdomen
775. Patient underwent bone marrow transplantation due to SCD, developed febrile neutropenia and has pneumonia,
she was given Ceftazidime and shows no improvement,in first week what to add?
A-Vancomycin
B- Tazocine
C- Ceftriaxone
D- amphotericin b
776. A Sickle cell disease patient who underwent bone marrow transplant. He got a fever 1 day after the procedure. He
was started on ceftazidime but did not improve after 72 hours. There was no pneumonia or hypotension. What to add ?
A. Voriconazole
B. Ceftriaxone
C. Sulfamethoxazole
D. Vancomycin
Q: Patient underwent bone marrow transplantation due to SCD, developed febrile neutropenia , she was given
Ceftazidime and shows no improvement After 72 Hours, what to add? (No Pneumonia , No Hypotension , No Central
Line , No Skin/Mucus Ulcerations)
A- Vancomycin
B- Tazocin
C- Ceftriaxone
D- Voriconazole
Q: patient with acute leukemia recently underwent allogenic bone marrow transplantation. After 2 weeks, she was neutropenic and
developed a fever and cough. She was diagnosed with invasive aspergillosis based on radiological and microbiological assessment.
Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
Rifampicin
Valaciclovir
Tigecycline
Voriconazole
777. Patient underwent bone marrow transplantation due to SCD, developed febrile neutropenia and has [NO]
Pneumonia , she was given Ceftazidime and shows no improvement, what to add?
A- Vancomycin
B- Tazocin
C- Ceftriaxone
D- Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole

778. Colorectal cancer screening for women 51 years with no family history or risk factors :
A. Colonoscopy 5 years
B. Fecal Occult Blood Test annually
779. Child with Sandpaper rash what is the treatment
Q: A 7-year-old boy presents with a pharyngitis, fever, and a diffuse, erythematous, sandpaper-like rash that began on
his
trunk and has now spread to his extremities. His tongue appears bright red (“strawberry tongue”).
What is the most likely causative organism?
A. Parvovirus B19
B. Staphylococcus aureus
C. Streptococcus pyogenes
D. Herpes simplex
Answer: C. Streptococcus pyogenes
Diagnosis is: Scarlet Fever
Treatment is Augmentin/ penicillin
780. Ascitis treated by sparonolactone with no improvment , managment ?
A. Tips
B. Therapeutic paracentesis
781. A 60-year-old man with liver cirrhosis presents to the Emergency Room with increasing ascites. He has no history of
fever or decreased level of consciousness. His medications include spironolactone 50 mg/day and furosemide 40 mg/day.
His physical examination confirms the presence of large ascites (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Intravenous diuretics
B. Therapeutic paracentesis
C. Increase the dose of furosemide
D. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS)
782. Watary diarrhea
A. norovirus
B. gardia
C. shigella

783. A 29-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Room with a very heavy period. She is morbidly obese and
diabetic. Her periods are irregular, occurring every 3-4 months. She had her period 2 weeks ago and it has not stopped,
with heavy clots. Pregnancy test is negative. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Fibroids
B. Bleeding disorder
C. Incomplete abortion
D. Chronic anovulation
784. A 50 year old female with a history of severe multiple sclerosis was recently diagnosed ESRD. The patient is alert
and has expressed a wish for "Do Not Resuscitate" (DNR). A recent lab result shows a potassium level of 6. What is the
appropriate action?
A- Dialysis is possible after reversal of DNR
B- Dialysis cannot be done because of DNR
C- Ignore the patient's wishes and proceed with dialysis
D- Give kayxzine and discuss DNR with the family
Q: 48-year-old female, diabetic and multiple sclerosis which is advance and progressive, admitted to the hospital, and
now develop renal failure, secondary to diabetes, she is alert and elected DNR at her own discretion( see report )
Potassium ( 8 high ) Which of the following most appropriate management in this case?
A- Dialysis can be done after DNR reversal
B- Dialysis cannot be done because of the DNR order
C- Ignore DNR and start dialysis
D- Give kayxalate and discuss DNR with family
785. 40-year-old woman is under treatment for a recurrent helicobacter-associated duodenal ulcer. She noticed that her
stool is turned non-tarry black (see lab result). What drug is likely to be the cause of the black stools?
A- Ranitidine
B- Pantoprazole
C- Bismuth subsalicylate
D- Aluminium hydroxide
Q: 32-year-old female on treatment of H.pylori, she noticed her stool color became dark, which drug is mostly the cause?
Aluminum hydroxide
Bismuth subsalicylate
Ranitidine
PPI
786. 6 years old boy came to clinic with , pale and Ecchymosis and petechiae post upper respiratory infection 2 weeks
ago ،boy now is well demarcated of bruising and petechiae . ( lab platelets was low cant remember the exact number)
what is most appropriate investigation to confirm the diagnosis

Low Platelets Normal Hb Normal WBC
A. coagulation factors
B. bone marrow biopsy
C. peripheral blood smear
D. anti platelets Antibodies
787. Child with high fever sore throat and mild erythematous rash O/E multiple mosquito bites, how to manage: Vitals
are stable except for fever of 39
A. Ibuprofen for fever
B. Empiric Abx
C. Hydration and supportive
788. patient is diagnosed with celiac disease. Which of the following foods should be avoided?
A) Rice
B) Maize
C) Potatoes
D) Wheat
789. Which of the following viral gastroenteritis can be prevented by vaccination?
A. Adenovirus infection
B. Astrovirus infection
C. Norovirus infection
D. Rotavirus infection
790. 7 year old boy his father has TB , he has PPD of 14 mm , CXR is negative , what is the next step?
A- give chemoprophylaxis for latent TB
B- Do IGRA test

791. 35 years old women known case of rheumatic heart disease, she had prosthetic valve replacement 3 years ago, she
want to do dental operation. What is the appropriate prophylactic antibiotic?
A- Ampicillin
B- Amoxicillin
C- Clindamycin
D- Ceftriaxone (not sure of this)
Q: Patient with mechanical valve/rheumatic heart disease undergoing dental procedure.
Prophylaxis?
A. Erythromycin 300mg or azythro?
B. Amoxicillin before and after procedure
C. No treatment
792. A 30-year-old woman asking for effective and reversible method of contraceptive, which if the following is the most
effective?
A. Vaginal ring containing hormones
B. Female condom
C. Male condom
D. Spermicide
793. A 53 yo man post angioplasty after MI 3 monthes ago now complaint on excercise and healthy life style presented to
the opd His labs cholesterol was 5.3 and his blood pressure is 139/75 What is the appropriate counseling
A. Annual cholesterol level
B. Continue on exercise and diet
C. Start lipid lowering medication
D. Start anti hypertensive medication
Q: Patient with MI 3 month ago. Medically free He is on diet and exercise Bp 136/86 Cholesterol 5.6 What you advice
him
A. Anti hypertensive
B. Lipid lowering agent
C. Continue with exercise and diet
794. Patient with trauma to the thigh about 4cm with visible underline tissues and bone. What is the initial treatment?
A. Apply a compressive dressing
B. Analgesia and fluids
C. IV antibiotics within the first hour

D. Immediate surgical debridement and stabilization
A??
795. 50 yo male veterinarian complaining of right sacro-iliac pain and fever for 2 monthes. Associated with back pain He
also appears agitated, behavioral changes…. It was along long question the labs were HB 10 Low PLT What is the
diagnosis?
A. TB
B. Syphilis
C. Brucellosis
D. Toxoplasmosis
796. Known htn patient presented to the clinic after failed to reach target blood pressure. He is on amlodipine and
losartan. His cbc and kidney function are normal. What to add
A. Ace i
B. A blocker
C. Diuretic
D. BB
797. 17 yo female came to the gyn clinic complaining of 1ry amenorrhea and abd pain for 18 monthes. On exam: mature
genitalia On DRE there’s a mass anterior to the rectum corresponding to the vagina A cruciate incision was made What
is the most important post operative instruction
A. Prophylactic abx
B. Topical estrogen cream for 2 weeks
C. OCP
798. 11 yo female with signs and symptoms of SLE and anti-dsna positive With low complements She is on mtx already
What to add
A. Cyclophosphamide
B. Hydroxychloroquine
C. MMF
Q: Patient 11 y with every symptom of active SLE malar rash and active arthritis but no cns on renal problems 100% sure the
labs all are the classic labs ex c3 was low and creatinine normal but the patient is not on any drug and they did not say he was
diagnosed before What is the management now?
A-Azathioprine
B-Hydroxychloroquine
C-Cyclophosphamide
D-Mycophenolate mofetil
Answer: B

799. A pediatric patient with white eye reflex. What to order to confirm diagnosis
CT
MRI
US
X-RAY
800. 4 years old with night time enuresis , never been dry , his mother is worried , what is the most reasonable advice
you can give? (Written like this)
A- refer to urology
B- refer to behavioral therapist
C- reassure
D- I don’t recall but something wrong
801. Preterm presents with nasal flaring and grunting. What is the appropriate management?
A. Intratracheal Surfactant therapy
B. Steroids
C. Antibiotics
D. Insert 2 tubes in the bronchus (something similar)
802. Post stroke patient, he has weakness and undergoing physical therapy and he is continuing to do primary
prevention measures. What type of prevention is his physical therapy?
A) tertiary
B) secondary
C) primary
D) rehabilitation not prevention

803. 25 years old male diagnosed with HTN and started on two drugs for HTN “did not tell names of the medications”
there is family history of stroke, labs shows hypokalemia and low bicarb or low ph i do not remember but sure low k ,
blood pressure still uncontrolled , what investigation to do:
A: renin angiotensin ratio
B: urine metanephrine
C: serum catecholamine
D: serum metanephrine
804. Female newly married she was using OCP before marriage, her husband want her to stop taking ocp because he
wants to start family immediately, but the wife refused, what to do?
A. There should be a medical reasons
B. The husband has the top priority in absence of medical reasons
805. patient presented to the clinic. She is a known case of Multiple Sclerosis, well controlled on Teriflunomide. She
denies any neurological symptoms but complains of generalized body pain. What should be added to her management?
A) Tizanidine
B) ABX
C) Oxybutynin

D) Carbamazepine
806. One new question about 6 month child came with his father to clinic c/o reducible pulge in center of his abdomen
increase with crying
A.umbilical hernia
B.omphalocele
807. A 26-year-old woman was treated with methotrexate for an ectopic pregnancy. Her BhCG results are as follows:
Baseline test was 1000 miu/ml on the day of the injection Day 4: BhCG was1200 miu/ml Day 7: BhCG was 2100 miu/ml
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. surgical intervention
C. Administer a multiple dose regimen of methotrexate
D.give second dose
808. A 30-year-old woman at 6 weeks gestation is receiving methotrexate treatment for an ectopic pregnancy. The first
dose of methotrexate 50 mg/m² IM was administered one week ago. The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels on
days 1, 4, and 7 were as follows: Day 1: 1000 mIU/mL Day 4: 1200 mIU/mL Day 7: 2100 mIU/mL Which of the following
is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Repeat beta-hCG in 1 week
B. Perform immediate surgical intervention
C. Administer a second dose of methotrexate
D. Admit for multiple methotrexate regimen
809. Patient diagnosed with acute pancreatitis 3 weeks ago, now present to ER Complain of mild abdominal pain and
tenderness, showed cyst measure 4 cm. How you will manage?
A. Observation
B. Internal drainage
C. External drainage
D. Surgical remove
810. Child glucose 38 Blood sample taken before correction not mention about mother hx Insulin fasting 40 was normal
regarding refrence range was upto 110 ACTH 500 was slightly high What is the cause of
A. Adrenal insufficiency
B. Hyperinsulinemia
811. 56 years old patient came to the clinic with abdominal pain, cramping, intermittent diarrhea. Symptoms increased
with stress and after food. O/E abdominal tenderness. Normal blood lab, normal colonoscopy, no dehydration, no
pathogen, what you should do for him?
A- Increase protein and decrease carb
B - Gluten free diet
C - Increase fiber to regulate bowel peristalsis

D - Decrease spicy food and fat to decrease irritation
812. 6 years old Patient with clear case of brucellosis. Hx of Drink raw milk patint had pain in the knee. Which if the
following is the first line treatment ?
A) Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole + Rifampicin for 6 week
B) Doxycycline + Rifampicin for 6 week
C) Ciprofloxacin for 4 week
D) Ceftriaxone for 4 week
813. 60-Year-Old Male Presents With Persistent Back Pain For 3 Months, Unresponsive To NSAIDs. Laboratory
Findings: Electrolytes: Normal, Creatinine: Elevated. Bone Marrow Biopsy: 20% Plasma Cells. What Is The Most
Likely Cause Of This Patient's Deterioration In Kidney Function?
A. Acute Tubular Necrosis (ATN)
B. Kidney Stones
C. Accumulation Of Monoclonal Light Chains
D. Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
814. A 65-year-old heavy smoker is coming for a general examination.. What is the best screening test for him?
A. Osteoporosis
B. Colon cancer
C. AAA
Q: A 50-year-old man with no past medical history presents for a routine visit. He does not smoke, and is not taking any
medications. Which of the following conditions should be screened for at this time?
A. Colon cancer
B. Breast cancer
C. Prostate cancer
815. A doctor prescribed a drug for a child and miscalculated the patient’s weight, causing side effects. How can this be
prevented?
A. Use concentrated medication formulation
B. Use standardized protocols based on the patient’s weight
C. Calculate based on the patient’s age
D. Let the nurse adjust the medication if she experiences side effects
816. A 70y old male patient with prostate cancer undergoing robotic surgery. He is known case of hypertension and had
a previous stroke. He is on anticoagulant which was stopped 5 days ago.Which of the following enhances safety of the
surgery?
A. Skip briefing and start immediately
B. Administer low dose anesthesia randomly
C. Check medication cessation and monitor bleeding

D. Start anticoagulant to prevent stroke
817. Female pt. With history of anxiety disorder. came with lethargy fatigue and want some days off. She said she is in a
stressful time but there is no physical symptoms What ethical point?
A.Give sick leave
B.Don’t give her
C.Refer to stress management and don’t give
C/A??
818.
[PIC]
819. 12 month old came with his mother, she’s worried about autim because his cousin has it, what advice will you give
her?
A. Screening for autism start 18-24 months
B. Reassure
820. Neonate with TTN and severe respiratory distress on mechanical ventilator but he is not improving, next step:
A. Tracheostomy
B. Increase o2
821. Newborn TTN, Hypoxia (he is receiving tx i don’t recall it but i think it was mechanical ventilator) Asking what
indicates that he is deteriorating
A. Blood glucose 55
B. Symptoms persisting after 24hr
C. O2 sat is not improving despite receiving o2
822. Female young age, her mother developed endomtrial ca, she had intramenstural bleeding and since the she is
worried that she has cancer. Her friend told her to do examination Physical ex is normal Pap smear is normal Asking
what stage of prevention she is at (almost like this)

A. Primordial
B. Primary
C. Tertiary
D. Secondary
823. Newborn delivered Small for Gestational Age, what would you do next? (No additional information)
A) Routine assessment without additional monitoring
B) Immediate IV glucose
C) Close monitoring of glucose and thermal regulation
824. A 2 year old boy his father brought him to the clinic for elective circumcision. What is the best next step?
A- Do full investigation including coagulation profile.
B- Wait til he became able to make the decision by himself then.
C- Refer to pediatric surgery.
D- Performs it on the clinic.
Answer: C
825. COPD or asthma not sure in mechanical ventilation after a couple of days he had fever and purulent discharge
from trachea how to prevent
A- elevate bed 30-45 degree
B- suctioning every hour
C- change the plastic tube daily
D- give prophylactic abx
826. A 32-year-old woman presents to the clinic with a 9-month history of amenorrhea conceming about her condition
(see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely complication for this patient?
Test Result Normal Values Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone 3 0.4 - 5.0 p/mL Follicle-stimulating hormone 60 5-20 IU/
(Follicular phase) 15-35 IU/L (Mid cycle peak) 5-15 IU/L (Luteal phase) 50-100 IU/L (Postmenopausal women) 5-20
IU/L (men) Testosterone 1 10.4-41.6 mol/L (Male) 0.7-2.8 nmol/L (Female) Luteinizing hormone 60 3-15 U/L (Male) 5-22
U/L (Follicular phase) 5-22 U/L (Luteal phase) 30-250 U/L (ovulatory phase) > 30 U/L (Postmenopausal) Prolactin 500 <
652 pmol/L. (Male) < 870 pmol/L (Female) Human chorionic gonadotropin 4 < 5 mlU/mL
A. She is at significant risk of endometrial cancer
B. She is at increased risk for multiple gestation
C. She is at increased risk of ovarian cancer
D. She is at significant risk of osteoporosis

827. Asthma child with recurrent symptoms of congested throat and mild fever with wheezing, the mother use inhaler as
prescribed ،which important for the mother ?
A-Ensure the patient know how to use inhaler
B-Recommend vit c juice
828. 32 years old female patient came with typical symptoms of POROM gush of flours and positive sterile SMT TEST
WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING IS HEALTH PROMOTION AND PREVENT ILLNESS ?
A. IMMEDIATE IOL to prevent infection
B. STEROID AND PROPHYLACTIC ABX
829. Post surgery Sickleave - her relative take 6 week and the doctor prescribe her only 4 she asked more even with sign
of recovery were found what to do?
A. follow up with 2 week to assure recovery
B. Recommend to ask employed for more leave if poor recovery
C. Standard is 4 weeks
830. Persistent HTN , FH OF STROKE , potassium 3,2 , muscle proximal 4/5 what test to reach diagnosis ?
Urine cortisol 24 h
Aldosterone renin ratio.
There Was No Diabetes , Nor Obesity
831. An elderly patient presented with urinary tract infection symptoms and sudden change in mental status. The
patient is disoriented to place and time and doesn’t know why she was admitted . Labs: Urinalysis leukocytes present,
nitrite positive . calcium 1.9 and sodium 134. What will bring her mental state back?
A. Antibiotics
B. Calcium gluconate
C. Correct sodium
Q: An elderly patient who present with UTI symptoms and CNS symptoms . There's vitals (BP, temp, HR, WBCs) but I
can't remember them Laboratory results (100% sure of every number) show calcium 1.97 mmol/L, sodium 132 mmol/L,
Bun 11 mmol/L, Random glucose 11 mmol Mri: mild cortical atrophy Which of the following will reverse his CNS
symptoms?
A- Correction of hyponatremia
B- Calcium gluconate
C- IV fluids and monitoring
D- proper antibiotics
Q: An elderly patient presents with fever, dysuria, and confusion. He has hypertension.

Labs: Na⁺ = 132, Ca²⁺ = 1.6, leukocytes in urine. Blood pressure is high.
Which treatment will reverse the CNS symptoms?
A. Correct hyponatremia
B. IV calcium gluconate
C. IV fluids
D. Proper antibiotics
832. A 2day old baby presents with lethargy, drowsiness, and vomiting. Glucose is normal. There is no acidosis and no
ketones. Ammonia level is markedly elevated 420. What is the most appropriate next management?
A. Dialysis
B. Glucose
C. Sodium benzoate
D. Lactulose

833. Pregnant smoking 12 weeks scared for the wellbeing of her fetus
A. bupropion with fetal monitoring of side effects
B. Switch to E-cigarettes
C. Nicotine gum with prenatal counselling
Q: A pregnant woman attends her antenatal visit. She is a smoker and has attempted to quit smoking but was unsuccessful. What is
the most appropriate management for smoking cessation in this patient?
• Nicotine replacement therapy
• Non Nicotine gum
• Varenicline
• Bupropion
834. Two research want to do trial on their new drug and it purpose to increase nutrition or improve the malnurished
kids , and they chose facilities which it is job to rehabilitate malnourished kids only as one center and i think the drug
show positive results what the error those Options
A . Selection bias
B . Recell bias
C . Confoding
Q: Two researchers are conducting a clinical trial to test a new drug intended to improve nutritional status in
malnourished children. They recruit participants only from specialized malnutrition rehabilitation centers (facilities
dedicated exclusively to the treatment and nutritional rehabilitation of malnourished children). The trial shows
significant improvement in nutritional outcomes among the participants. What is the most important methodological
error/bias in this study?
A. Selection bias
B. Recall bias
C. Confounding
D. ( (لﺎﺜﻣ ﻊﺋﺎﺷ ﻲﻓ تارﺎﯿﺨﻟاInformation bias / Measurement bias / Observer bias
Q: Two patients were scheduled to undergo surgery on the same day. Due to an identification error, the surgeon
mistakenly
performed the operation on the wrong patient.
Which of the following is the most appropriate measure to prevent this type of error from occurring?
835. Patient with pneumonia symptoms and hemoptysis Received 2 course of antibiotics but no improvement, (No hx of
travel) asking about the cause

A. Staphylococcus aureus
B. Legionella
C. Mycoplasma pneumonia
D. Streptococcus pneumonia
A??
836. 90 year old male living in residential community comes complaining of severe abdominal pain in the last 24 hours.
The abdomen was soft and lax, tender all over, hyperactive abdominal sounds. (no rigidity) What is the next step:
A. Colonoscopy
B. Sigmoidoscopy
C. US abdomen
837. 24-year-old primigravida at 39 weeks of gestation is in the latent phase of labor. Examinaton revealed the cervix is 2
cm dilated. Cardiotocography shows a baseline of 140 beats per minute, moderate variability (recurrent early
decelerations) Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A) Initiate oxygen therapy
B) Continue routine monitoring
C) CS
838. ﻲﻛﺎﺳاوﺎﻛ ﺾﯾﺮﻣ ﻲﻧﺎﺟ And they said the dx And he used high aspirin and immunoglobulins And mentioned something
about the carotid ( im not sure but it was CV system finding ) The what to give :
Steroid methy….. IV
Low dose oral aspirin
839. Which of the following will increase epilepsy
A. simple febrile
B. Complex
840. A 60-year-old man with bowel obstruction requires hospital admission but refuses despite medical advice, What is
the best action?
A- Force him to stay as he may be psychotic
B- Let him sign a DAMA form
C- Ensure that he understands the risks and allow him to sign discharge papers
D- Call security to restrain the patient
841. Patient admitted as a case of severe pneumonia and 2 days after initiating Abx he started feeling slighty better and
decided to leave the hospital against medical advice, what should the physician do?

A. Call security and stop him from leaving
B. Allow him to leave without documented
C. Respect autonomy, sign DAMA , give instructions
842. Patient tested positive for Ebola and asked treating physician to either discharge him or let him leave the hospital.
What is the correct action?
A. Call hospital security
B. Consult ethics committee
C. Refer to infectious disease
D. Make him sign discharge against medical advice
843. a patient have to do open heart surgery, He wanted to sign DAMA and refuses the surgery, because he wanted to go
back home and use traditional/herbal “something like that” medication to treat his condition. What to do?
A- Discuss ethics committee, document his refusal, and advice him
B- explain the risk, urge him to stay, then let him go (No mention of DAMA documentation in that option)
C- let him go
D- don’t let him go
844. A 30-year-old man presents with cough, fever, and right-sided pleuritic chest pain for 2 days. He is a non-smoker
and works as a school teacher. He has no significant past medical history and does not take any medicine. Examination
reveals bronchial breath sounds at the right lower chest (see report). Chest X-ray: Right lower lobe pneumonia and 25
mm pleural effusion on decubitus film. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in the management?
A. Perform diagnostic thoracentesis
B. Start anti-tuberculosis treatment
C. Perform bronchoalveolar lavage
D. Intravenous antibiotics
845. case of pt complain of shortness of breath but no chest pain , tropinin and or her cardiac enzymes (ck mb) are
normal they were last normal range one of them 3.5 and troponin 0.2 i think, ECG show Bradycardia or heart block
what to do ?
A. Atropine
B. Cardioversion
C. Aspirin and clopidegrol
D. Anticoagulant
846. Pre Employment
+ve HBsAg / Anti HBc IgG -ve anti HBs / HBeAg تارﺎﯿﺨﻟا ﻦﻤﺿ

A. Acute hepatitis B
B. Chronic hepatitis B
C. Resolved station from hepatitis B (something like this)
Q: A 34-Year-Old Man Previously Healthy Brought A Laboratory Results For Hepatitis B Virus From A Private Clinic
(SeeLab Results).
Test Result
HBAg Negative
HBeAg Negative
Anti-HBsAg Positive
Anti-HBc IgG Negative
What Is The Clinical State The Laboratory Results Indicate?
A. Previous Hepatitis B Infection
B. Acute Hepatitis B Infection
C. Chronic Hepatitis B Infection
D. Previous Hepatitis B Immunization
Answer: D. Previous Hepatitis B Immunization
847. Pediatric with ankle and knee pain, limited range of motion, warmth, had gastroenteritis 2 weeks ago No Effusion
(Mentioned On The Stem) How to MANAGE (It was management)
A. oral ibuprofen
B. oral prednisone
C. synovial aspiration for analysis and culture
D. I think IV ABX

848.
849.
850.

851.
852. preterm. Now he has respiratory distress. Cause?
A. Hyaline membrane disease
B. Meconium aspiration
C. Transient tachypnea of newborn
D. Congenital heart disease
Q: Baby born by cessarian section He is preterm 27 weeker * Now he has respiratory distress
A. Hyaline membrane disease
B. Meconium aspiration
C. Transient tachypnea of newborn
D. Congenital heart disease
Answer: A. Hyaline membrane disease
853. Atrial fibrillation ﻦﯿطﺎﺣ ﻲﻧﺎﺛ ﻲﺷ لاو ﮫﯿﻓﺎﻣ ﺶﻠﻛ ﺮﯿﻐﺻ ﺲﯿﻛ ﻮھو ززﻮﻨﻗﺎﯾﺪﻟا ﻦﯿﺒﺗﺎﻛvitals stable rateتارﺎﯿﺨﻟا ﻞﻣرﻮﻧ نا ﻊﻗﻮﺗا ﻦﯿﺒﺗﺎﻛو:
A. amlodipine
B. aspirin and clopidogrel
C. aspirin and metoprolol
D. apixaban and bisoprolol
Q: A Medically Free Male Was Incidentally Found To Have Atrial Fibrillation (A-Fib) With HR: 110 bpm And BP:
110/70 mmHg. What Is The Best Treatment For Him? (They Didn’t Ask About Rhythm Control)

A- Amiodarone
B- Aspirin With Clopidogrel
C- Aspirin + bisoprolol
D- Apixaban + metoprolol
854. Case and he asked, LDL-cholesterol (mmol/L) Optimal range:
A-<2.5
B-<2.2
C-<2
D-<3
If There Is No ASCVD ➔ <2.5 , If There Is ASCVD ➔ 2.0
855. 36 wk ga, CTG type 2 deceleration while she is in labour, +2 station, what is the management?
A. forceps
B. ventouse
C. cs
D. Fetal Scalp Sampling
856. A 32 y/o man presents to the ER after a motorcycle accident. He has multiple pelvic fractures, vascular injuries and
they did surgery for him What is the most appropriate management post op
A. Apply a pelvic binder
B. Give analgesia and IV fluids
C. Start broad-spectrum antibiotics
D. Early rehabilitation and physical therapy
857. When we do test for urine inf for pregnant women in which week?
A-12
B-20
858. Best type of dressing of planter of foot:
A- Hydrocolloid
B- Alginate
C- gauze
D- transparent film
859. DM with ulcer in the foot, what type of dressing?
A- Alginate

B- Hydrogel ) not sure (
C-Hydrocolloid dressing
D- Transparent films
Diabetic patient with plantar ulcer with exudate. Dressing by what?
A. Hydrocolloid
B. Hydrofiber
C. Alginate
D. Transparent film
Answer: C
860.
861. Child that has taken alkaline substance, presented 3 hours later, SOB and salivation
A. take him to OR
B. intubation
C. Keep him under observation
D. Endoscopy
862. A Child with inhalation of alkaline fluid 3h ago presented with oropharyngeal pain, difficulty swallowing, Drooling
Of Saliva. Vitally stable, O/E oropharyngeal redness, mild tenderness. What to do?
A- Admission for conservative

B- Emergency bronchoscopy
C- Exploration of the area in OR
D- Discharge and F/U
863. A Child with inhalation of alkaline fluid 3h ago presented with oropharyngeal pain, difficulty swallowing, Drooling
Of Saliva. Vitally stable, O/E oropharyngeal redness, mild tenderness. What to do?
A- Admission for conservative And Anti-Biotics
B- Emergency bronchoscopy
C- Exploration of the area in OR
D- Discharge and F/U
864. A child was choking with a popcorn and then was removed by coughing After that he has hyperinflation of of the
right lower lobe and crackles ig or crepitations What to do next
A. rigid bronchopy
B. reassure
C. observe for 24 hours
D. flexible laryngeo bronchoscopy
865. 70-year-old male with hypertension 172/85 with cholesterol i think 6 and non smoker,calculate Cardiovascular risk?
A- 16-19.
B-20-24
C- 25-29.
D- >30

866. 74 years old with pulmonary fibrosis presented to ER with multiple respiratory failure episodes, the patient
expressed desire to DNI and signed it, then presented again the respiratory distress, the nurse go to case but her
doughter wanted to intubate her to prolong her life, what should the nurse do?
A- comfortable measures only
B- stop respiratory support due DNI
C- proceed with intubation
D- non invasive respiratory
867. 35 years female presented with appendicitis and she scheduled for laparoscopic Appendectomy, she has history of
asthma with no exacerbation. She has fever (>38) Which of the following will improve the surgical safety ?
A- Site marking and preparation of surgical equipment
B- Pre-op IV antibiotics to accelerate process
C- Ignore her history of asthma
D- not taking consent it's minor surgery
A???
868. Patient with family hx of diabetes 13 to 15 y old with symptoms of thirst and polyuria ivx show Fasting glucose 8 to
10 mmol not sure but above normal range Hb a1c above 7 , 7.8 % options
A. Do a random bs to differentiate between pre diabetes and diabetes
B. Give metformin
Q: A patient having polyuria polydipsia with strong family hx of dm2. HBA1C is 7.8 and fasting glucose is 9. What is the
first line medication?
1 Metformin
2 Sitagliptin
Q: A young female came for check up or something , BMI 31, HbA1C 7.8 BP normal no other comorbidities What’s the
first line anti-diabetic?
A.sitagliptin
B.Metformin
C.Liraglutide
D. Glimepiride

869. An adult patient presents with He has a strong family history of diabetes mellitus. Only he hase occasionally thirst
and fatigue His fasting blood glucose (FBG ) is 7.5 mmol/L. (No Mention Of A1c) What is the first priority in
management?
A. Start metformin as first-line management
B. Repeat the blood test to distinguish between prediabetes and diabetes
870. 6 years old boy came to clinic with , Pale and Ecchymosis and petechiae post upper respiratory infection 2 weeks
ago boy now is well demarcated of bruising and petechiae. labs Low Platelets Low Hb Normal WBC Examiner: There
Were Other Labs , But I Don’t Remember Them what is most appropriate investigation to confirm the diagnosis
A- coagulation factors
B- bone marrow biopsy
C- Epstein–Barr Virus serology
871. Female 22 year old on warfarin wants wants contraception:
A) progesterone only
B) OCP
C) Combined estrogen progesterone patch
D) bilateral tubal ligation
Q: Young female w cardiac disease on warfarin, contraception?
A) estrogen and progesterone patch
B) COC

C) tubal ligation
D) progesterone only pills
Answer: D
872. Female with ectopic pregnancy started on methotrexate b-hcg on day 4 and 7 is plateauing and she is asymptomatic
what is the next appropriate step? There was no number just like this
A- Administer a second methotrexate dose
B- Surgery
C- Repeat b-h g in 48
D-Repeat b-hcg in 1 week
873. Woman postpartum with uncontrolled bleeding that led to DIC. What condition did she have?
A- uterine rupture
B- abruptio placenta
C- placenta previa
D- congenital bleeding disorder
874. Child present with 7 week left knee morning stiffness, pain , warm , effusion, decrease rang of motion, , no
systematic symptoms no fever or malais or other , blood and stool culture negative What is your diagnosis?
A- Oligo juvenile arthritis
B- septic arthritis
C- reactive arthritis
D- hemophilia A
875. A 25-year-old man presents with weight loss, abdominal pain, and bloody stools. His mother and siblings have
experienced similar symptoms. On physical examination, the abdomen is unremarkable. A fecal occult blood (guaiac)
test is positive. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Peutz–Jeghers syndrome
B. Familial adenomatous polyposis
C. Ulcerative colitis
D. Crohn disease
Q: 25 YO complain of 3 months abdominal pain, bloody DIARRHEA,
weight loss.Mother and brother have same complain Guaiac stool test: positive
A. Ulcerative colitis
B. Familial adenomatous polyposis
C. diverticulosis
Answer: B

876. 50 year old male presented to the Er with lethargy, ecg normal labs all normal except potassium 6.6 and HCO3 15
What’s the initial management?
A. IV NS
B. Insulin dextrose infusion
C. IV bicarbonate
D. Hemodialysis
Q: A 55-year-old man is seen in the Emergency Department complaining of lethargy for the last 2
days. On physical examination, vital signs are stable with unremarkable physical examination.
ECG shows no acute changes (see lab results).
Test Result Normal Values
Sodium 139 134-146 mmol/L
Potassium 6.6 3.5-5.1 mmol/L
Bicarbonate 15 21-28 mmol/L
Blood urea nitrogen 9 2.8 to 8.9 mmol/L
Creatinine 118 44-115 mol/L
Which of the following is the most appropriate initial treatment?
A. Haemodialysis
B. Intravenous bicarbonate
**C. Insulin dextrose infusion
D. Intravenous normal saline
877. A 55-year-old man is newly diagnosed with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. He is started on aspirin,
metformin, lisinopril, and hydrochlorothiazide. A few days later, he develops severe pain, redness, and swelling of the
first metatarsophalangeal (MTP) joint. Which of the following medications is most likely responsible for this adverse
effect?
A. Aspirin
B. Metformin
C. Lisinopril
D. Hydrochlorothiazide
878. Newborn or months old I think with undescended testis palpable in the inguinal canal how to manage
A) immediate surgery
B) wait until 2 years
Q: During examination of a Newborn they found out right undescended testicle (in the inguinal canal) When should the
surgery performed?
A- Immediately
B- After 2 years
D- Wait few months

879. Patient admit to ICU due to pulmonary embolism , no vital report Which of the following should to give first ?
A. Enoxaparin
B. Thrombosis
880. A 35-year-old man, who was medically free, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with massive pulmonary
embolism. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial treatment?
A. Warfarin
B. Thrombolysis
C. Low molecular heparin
D. Direct thrombin inhibitor (dabigatran)
881. Patient have recent angin pain and was Dotson with stemi and manage accordingly ،Which of the following will be
give for long term
A. Low aspirin with statin
B. Beta block and aspirin
C. aspirin with High statin
D. CCBS
882. What test result is significant or diagnostic for uti
A) mixed bacteria in urine culture
B) over 10^5 growth of single bacteria
883. A 55-year-old man with chronic hepatitis B presents to the clinic for routine follow-up. Physical examination reveals
a palpable right upper quadrant mass. He has ascites that is well controlled with diuretic therapy. Contrast-enhanced
CT scan of the abdomen demonstrates a 6 × 6 cm mass in the right hepatic lobe with arterial phase enhancement. The
portal venous and delayed phases are unremarkable. A biopsy of the lesion confirms hepatocellular carcinoma. What is
the most appropriate management step at this stage?
A. systemic chemotherapy
B. Trans arterial chemoembolization
C. Referral for surgical resection

884.
885. A previously healthy child presents with a febrile seizure associated with an upper respiratory tract infection. The
mother is concerned about recurrence and asks about prevention strategies. What is the most appropriate advice?
A. Give regular doses of ibuprofen during febrile illnesses
B. Start antiepileptic medication now
C. Perform an EEG to identify type of seizure
D. Educate the family about seizure first aid and management
886. A patient presents with a mass in the triceps region that has been progressively increasing in size over the past 3
months. MRI findings raise a strong suspicion for malignancy. What is the most appropriate next investigation to
confirm the diagnosis?
A. Fine needle (FN) biopsy
B. Excisional biopsy
C. Incisional biopsy
D. Core needle biopsy
887. A 28-year-old man who was previously healthy, presented to the Emergency Department with 5-days history of
right upper quadrant abdominal pain, which was associated with nausea and 2 episodes of vomiting. 2 days later, his
family noticed yellowish discolouration of his eyes and skin. No history of alcohol or drug use. On examination, he was
jaundiced. Abdominal exam showed tender right upper abdomen (see lab results), Test Result Normal Values Alkaline
phosphatase 109 39-117 |U/L Alanine aminotransferase 990 5-40 IU/L Aspartate aminotransferase 789 12-40 IU/L
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in diagnosis?

A. Hepatitis A IgG
B. Hepatitis A IgM
C. Hepatitis B antigen
D. Hepatitis C antibodies
888. A 42-year-old man is involved in a high-speed motor vehicle accident. He presents with shortness of breath,
respiratory rate 32/min, and paradoxical chest wall movement. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Needle thoracostomy
B. Chest tube insertion
C. Analgesia and respiratory support
D. Three-sided occlusive dressing
889. 65 years old woman came to the ER complaining of sudden epigastric pain radiating to the back Xray: widened
mediastinum Dx?
A-Aortic dissection
B-Esophageal rupture
C-GERD
D-Pancreatitis
890. 46 years old female right handed, complaining of Sausage digits in the left hand and nail pitting, what else you can
find in the history?
A-Dermatological problems
B- Heat intolerance
Q: A Young Female Presents With Joint Pain Located In Her Distal Interphalangeal Joints And Knees. On
Examination, You Notice That Her Fingers Are Sausage shaped.
Which Of The Following Is Expected To Be Seen In This Patient?
A. Dermatologic Problem
B. Pulmonary Edema
C. SLE
D. RA
Answer: A. Dermatologic Problem
891. A young girl has been experiencing severe symptoms of depression and has made multiple suicide attempts. The
doctor recommends that she be admitted to the hospital for her safety. However, the girl becomes very upset and angry
about this decision. What ethical principle is guiding the doctor's recommendation to admit her?
A- Justice
B- Beneficence
C- NonmaleficenceD-Autonomy?

892. A newborn presents with abdominal distention, tenderness, absent bowel sounds, and no meconium passage for 48
hours. On examination, a sudden gush of stool occurs after a digital rectal exam, and the baby becomes stable. What is
the most appropriate initial next step?
A. Rectal biopsy
B. Glycerin suppository
Q: Newborn came to ER with abdominal distention, tenderness upon palpation, absent bowel sound, No meconium
passge for 48hrs, on examination there was sudden gush of stool after Dre get beter ans stable Most appropriate next
step?
A. Suction and rectal biopsy
B. US
Q: A 1-month-old baby is brought to the clinic with signs of constipation, abdominal distention, and bilious vomiting.
The
parents explain that constipation has been a problem since the baby's birth.
Which of the following tests has the highest diagnostic value?
A. Plain X-ray
B. Rectal biopsy
C. Anal manometry
D. US abdomen
Answer: B (MG)
Q: Baby is brought to the clinic with signs of constipation, abdominal distention, and bilious vomiting. No passage of
meconium at the first 48 hours, The parents explain that constipation has been a problem since the baby's birth. During
rectal examination there was gush of stool coming out
Which of the following tests should be ordered next?
A. Plain X-ray
B. Rectal biopsy
C. Anal manometry
D. US abdomen
Answer: A (Modified MG)

893. A female presents with weight loss. A biopsy is performed, and the results confirm ovarian cancer. What is the best
way to break the bad news to the patient?
A. “I have some serious news. Can we talk about it?”
B. “We found a mass, it could be cancer.”
C. “Don’t worry about it; everything will be fine
894. 44 YO female presented with history of neck swelling for 3 months. She is asymptomatic. Examination revealed
thyroid nodule 2x2 cm. What is the best next step?
A. Thyroid U/S
B. FA
C. Core needle biopsy
D. TSH

895. During a school health program, a female student is noted to have low vision. She is referred to an ophthalmologist,
where a refractive error is confirmed, and corrective glasses are prescribed This scenario represents which level of
prevention?
A. Primordial
B. Primary
C. Secondary
D. Tertiary
896. 72 years old male known to have hypertension and is heavy smoker was found incidentally to have abdominal
pulsatile mass. Ultrasound abdomen: 4.5cm abdominal aortic aneurysm Which of the following is the best management?
A) Reassurance
B) Urgent surgery
C) Follow up with ultrasound
D) Aneurysm endarectomy
897. A patient with chronic limb ischemia (history of intermittent claudication relieved by rest) presents with acute leg
pain and diminished pulses. What is the best initial test?
A- Ankle-brachial index
B- Doppler ultrasound
C- MR angiography
D- CT angiography
Q: Patient K/C DM HTN and PAD. Presents to the ER complaining of sudden onset leg pain and paresthesia. On examination:
diminished pulse. What is the most appropriate initial investigation?
A. CT Angiography
B. ABI
C. Doppler
Answer: C
898. Man presents with progressive shortness of breath for the past 5 days. He was involved in a traffic accident 2 weeks
ago. On examination, breath sounds are absent on the right side. with pic of chest X-ray showing a homogenous white
appearance on the base of right lung looks like hemothorax. His respiratory rate is 24/min and oxygen saturation is 90%
rest of vitals are normal. What is the most appropriate management?
A) Give antibiotic
B) Needle aspiration
C) Chest tube insertion
D) Thoracic surgery referral
899. A newborn presents with abdominal distention, tenderness, absent bowel sounds, and no meconium passage for 48
hours. On examination, a sudden gush of stool occurs after a digital rectal exam, and the baby becomes stable. What is
the most appropriate initial next step?
A. Rectal biopsy
B. Glycerin suppository

900. A 3-year-old child presents with high-grade fever and sore throat. On examination, there is a diffuse erythematous
“sandpaper-like” rash. A rapid antigen detection test is positive. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Supportive treatment only
B. Acyclovir for 7 days
C. Amoxicillin for 10 days
901. A term newborn with intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is admitted to the NICU for close monitoring due to
risk of complications. Which of the following complications is most likely?
A. Hyperthermia
B. Hyperglycemia
C. Hypocalcemia
D. Anemia
902. A patient involved in a road traffic accident presents to the emergency department with hypotension and
tachycardia. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Neurogenic shock
B. Hemorrhagic shock
903. 67-year-old male presents with hematuria. Known BPH (prostate enlarged on exam, no suspicious features). No
trauma, stones, flank pain, or systemic symptoms. IV pyelogram normal. Question: Next diagnostic test?
A. Cystoscopy
B. CT abdomen
C. Ultrasound
D. Prostate biopsy
904. 50 old male age came to the clinic concerned seeing blood in his urine. While obtaining history the patient
complained of Right Flank pain. No history of trauma or History Of Prior stones. On examination there’s right flank
tenderness and enlarged prostate On DRE. Urinalysis : 20 RBC What is The most appropriate investigation
A. Cystoscopy
B. CT KUB
C. x ray
905. A primigravida presents to the clinic early in pregnancy. She has no underlying medical conditions, but reports a
history of a first-trimester spontaneous abortion. She is anxious about miscarriage and wants advice on her current
pregnancy. What is the most appropriate counseling or management for this patient?
A. Order a testing for causes of recurrent abortion

B. Reassure her that the risk of miscarriage is approximately 10–15%
906. Pediatric girl complain of lef knee pain and joint swelling and chest pain on exercise, patient had sore throat three
weeks ago treated with corticosteroids. Mother is asking how to prevent, Which of the following will prevent recurrence
of this ?
A- 10 days oral penicillin
B- Benzathine penicillin once monthly
C- strept vaccine
D- flu vaccine
907. 67 yo k/c of Afib, htn and depression came with insomnia , irritability and palpitation. On medications amiodarone
fluxtion and enalapril.?
A- Measure Thyroxin and TSH
B- refer to psychiatrist
C- add propranolol
908. 26-years-old woman presents with vaginal discharge that is characterized by a thin milky appearance with a
fish-like odor. On examination, the vaginal pH of 4.5 was found. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Trichomonas vaginalis infecTIon
B. Group B strep colonization
C. Bacterial vaginosis
D. Gonorrhea
909. 26-years-old woman presents with vaginal discharge that is characterized by a thin milky appearance with a
fish-like odor. On examination, the vaginal pH of 7.5 was found. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Trichomonas vaginalis infection
B. Group B strep colonization
C. Bacterial vaginosis
D. Gonorrhea
910. An patient had a sigmoid polyp and was removed completely by endoscopy, which of the following will indicates the
highest malignant transformation?
A- Tubular
B- Villous
C- Hyperplastic
D- Tubouvillous
911. 17 year old complaining of sudden movement stop without falling for 15 seconds while Lip smacking, EEG : 3 Hz
spike, what is the management ?
A. Ethosuximide

B. Phenytoin
912. researcher want to assess the relationship btw birth weight and cognitive function r= +0.8 What is the interpretation
of correlation coefficient? ( 100 sure)
A. Inverse relation btw them
B. Inc Weight birth causes cognitive function to be low
C. Inc Weight birth increase cognitive development
D. No relation btw them
913. researcher want to assess the relationship btw birth weight and cognitive function r= +0.8 What is the interpretation
of correlation coefficient? ( 100 sure)
A. Inverse relation
B. wight birth little increase cognitive Development
C. wight birth commonly increase cognitive Development
914. 31-year-old woman is evaluated because of daily wheezing and breathlessness that limit her activities several times a
week. Medical history is otherwise unremarkable. She has never smoked. She is diagnosed with moderate persistent
asthma. In addition to a short-acting 32-agonist, which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Add a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting B2-agonist
B. Add a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid
C. Add a leukotriene antagonist
D. Add theophylline
915. 44-year-old man complains of dyspnea on exertion. Heart auscultation reveals an early diastolic murmur at the base
of the heart. The intensity and duration of the murmur increase during INSPIRATION. Which of the following is the
most likely cause?
A- Mitral regurgitation
B- Aortic regurgitation
C- Tricuspid regurgitation
D- Pulmonary regurgitation
Q: Patient came with early diastolic murmur heard at sternal area and increased by leaning forward. ECG finding: left
ventricular hypertrophy. Most likely diagnosis?
A. Mitral stenosis
B. Mitral regurgitation
C. Aortic Stenosis
D. Aortic regurgitation
916. Newborn with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy What’s the Maternal cause ?
A- SLE

B- Diabetes mellitus
917. Lady with 6 macrosomic babies , how to prevent PPH
A. oxytocin
B. Active management of third stage of labor
Q: A grand multipara woman had an uncomplicated spontaneous vaginal delivery. You came immediately postpartum,
and this is her 6th macrosomic baby. Which one of the following provides prophylactic postpartum management?
A- Oxytocin
B- Misoprostol
Q: 38-year-old multipara had a postpartum hemorrhage after a normal vaginal delivery of a macrosomic baby. Which
of the following is the best management of this condition?
A. Oxytocin
B. Ergonovine
C. Misoprostol
D. Carboprost
918. PPH , how to prevent it:
A. Oxytocin
B. Misoprostol
C. Carboprost
919. An adult, medically free patient presents with upper abdominal pain for 12 hours associated with nausea, but no
vomiting. There are no changes in stool or urine color, no pale stools or dark urine, and no changes in bowel habits. On
examination, sclera and skin are normal. On deep palpation there is tenderness. Vital signs: normal Ultrasound
findings: • Multiple gallbladder stones • Normal gallbladder wall thickness • No pericholecystic fluid • Common bile duct
(CBD) is obstructed by a stone Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Pancreatitis
B. Cholecystitis
C. Obstructive jaundice
D. Small bowel obstruction
920. Neoborn with delayed umbilical cord separation , the same thing happened with his older brother, normal PT ,
normal PTT and normal bleeding time but clot lysis take 5 hours?
A. Factor XIII deficiency
B. Von willebrand disease
C. bernard-soulier syndrome
D. Hemophilia

921. 50 years old have pancreatitis 6 weeks ago came with worsening abdominal pain and palpable enlarging mass. CT
scan : well defined fluid cyst. Most appropriate management ?
A. Endoscopic drainage
B- IV antibiotic
C- Antibiotic & observation
D- Immediate surgical drainage
922. 4 years old has family history of essential hypertension and the parents are concerned on how to prevent or protect
the kid?
A. Discouraging physical activity
B. Normal salt intake
C. Start antihypertensive
D. Regular monitor of hypertension
923. A young girl with RLQ abdominal pain, afebrile, normal WBC, mild tenderness, question specifically says: what is
the most important management to avoid missed diagnosis?
A. Admit for serial abdominal examination and reassessment for 24 hours
B. Discharge and ask her to come back if pain returned
C. Analgesia
924. A healthy woman came to preconception clinic. What is the folic acid dose to be given in mg?
A. 1
B. 4
C. 10
D. 15
Q. What is the Folic acid quantity for a healthy lady wants to conceive and with no prior
diseases or disorders?
A. 1 mg
B. 5 mg
C. 10 mg
D. 15 mg
Answer: A
925. A 40-year-old man with a history of recurrent painful attacks affecting the right big toe, was diagnosed with gout
and started on allopurinol. He is also a known case of psoriasis for several years. He presented to the clinic with
recurrent joint pain affecting the right big toe, left ankle, and bilateral knees. He is using allopurinol regularly as
prescribed but has no improvement in his joint pain. Examinations revealed he has active arthritis at the left ankle and
knee joints bilaterally (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely cause for his joint pain?

A. Active pseudogout arthritis.
B. Active gout arthritis.
C. Psoriatic arthritis.
D. Osteoarthritis.
926. An elderly who is asymptomatic. ECG: LVH. Echo: Severe bicuspid aortic stenosis. Normal left ventricular ejection
fraction. What is the next appropriate management?
A. Follow up with serial echo
B. Transcutaneous aortic valve repair
C. Mechanical valve replacement
Q: 70 year old has no sx but k/c of severe aortic stenosis, did ECHO and showed Severe aortic stenosis, LVH, and
Normal left ventricle (YES WALLAH THEY WROTE IT LIKE THIS) (Forgot the stem)
A- TAVR
B - follow up with echo
Q:
Q: Managment of severe asymptomatic Bicuspid aortic stenosis
A. Observe
927. 2 month old child was found to have an ejection systolic murmur on clinical examination. The mother reports SOB
on exertion with physical activity. There is no history of chest pain nor syncope. ECHO confirmed aortic stenosis with
good left ventricular systolic function. Aortic valve gradient of 60 mmH. BP and HR are normal. Which of the following
is the most appropriate management option?
A. Follow up
B. Start anti-coagulant
C. Aortic balloon valvuloplasty
D. Diuretics
928. Patient has been diagnosed with high cholesterol level and has known history of hypertension and diabetes melitus
2. Lately he feels cramps in muscle and uncomfortable feeling in legs. Which of these medicines is most probably
responsible for this?
A. Metformin
B. Lisinopril
C. Atorvastatin
D. Fibrate

Q: 60-year-old patient is on lisinopril, thiazide diuretic, and atorvastatin. He presents with muscle weakness and
generalized muscle aches. Which of the following medications is the most likely cause of his symptoms?
A) Lisinopril
B) Thiazide diuretic
C) Atorvastatin
Q:
929. Researcher wants to apply for a IRB but the ethics authority have concerns and reject it. He will search about best
cervical cancer screening method . The concern is that the patients will not know cervical screening guidelines nor the
results of the screening ( positive or negative ) . What will help get his application accepted ?
A. Nothing, it will be accepted
B. Send reports to the patients with high alarm systems
C. Tell the negative cases about their results
D. Call positive cases about their results and instruct them where to go after that.
930. 3y child with persistent expiratory wheezing since urti 2 weeks ago. He has previous history of same complain which
resolved using inhaled steroid . There is no history of allergies, eczema. the mother ask you how to deal with it?
A- Symptomatic wheezing will disappear by preschool age
B- prolonged antibiotics will worsen symptoms
C- corticosteroids will cause diabetes
D-inhaled salbutamol will prevent development of asthma
931. Pt went to africa, came back with intermittent fever & “malaria symptoms” , whats appropriate tx:
A. vanco (and others all wrong)
B. Chloroquine

932. 38wk newborn increasing SOB and grunting:
A. meconium aspiration
B. Transient tachypnea of new born
933. Newborn wheezing with chest recession, RR 65 dx:
A. bronchiolitis
B. Asthma
C. Pneumonia
D. Croup
934. 1st trimester scan shows severe fetal anomaly mother requesting abortion. which should be considered?
A. fetal rights
B. societal interest
C. maternal autonomy
D. physician’s personal beliefs
Q: Pregnant, (1st visit at the antenatal clinic I think) with 14w want to terminate the pregnancy because of the anomaly
A- Respect the Autonomy
B- refuse
C-sothing like community ethics
Q: Pregnant with 14w want to terminate the pregnancy for social reasons
A- Respect the Autonomy
B- refuse
C-sothing like community ethics
935. Blood smear of Sickle, how to confirm?
A. Electrophoresis

936. A newborn presents with bleeding from the umbilical stump shortly after it was cut. Laboratory findings are:
Platelet count: 18,000/μL PT: normal aPTT: normal The mother has a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Vitamin K deficiency bleeding
B. Neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia
C. Hemophilia A
D. Congenital platelet function defect
937. Bleeding post delivery: pt and aptt normal with thrombocytopenia, how to manage:
A. platelet and ivig
938. Pt pregnant and has disease and pregnancy risky for her life and doctor decide to abortion but parents refuse?
A-Abort to safe her life
B-Respect parents wishes
939. Child bleeds after umbilical stump His mother has SLE THE child has normal PTt and pt with PLT 18000 what is
the TREATMENT?
A- platelet and IVIG
B- steroid
C- FFB
D- VITAMIN K with pcc
940. Pt presented with st depression and elevated troponin (no time given) Whats the BEST tx to INITIATE?
A- primary angioplasty
B- aspirin, clopidogrel & heparin
C- aspirin, clopidogrel & thryombolytic
941. A pt k/c hypertension diabetes presents with increased sob , hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea Echo shows LV
hyper atrophy Labs shows 500 bnb - normal 300 1 Troponin - normal 0.07 What is the type of shock?
A hemorrhagic
B neurogenic
C obstructive
D cardiogenic
942. What is the cause of TTN?
A. delayed clearance or absorption of fetal lung fluid
B. Premature lung

943. A woman had gestational hypertension during pregnancy That Has Resolved. She delivered 4 weeks ago, and her
current blood pressure is 133/88 mmHg. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Restrict salt intake and rest
B. Prescribe antihypertensive medication if high blood pressure remains
C. Check blood pressure at the annual follow-up
944. Seizure and jerky movement arm involvement ﻢھﺮﻛذا ﻲﻟا لوذ ﺲﺑ تارﺎﯿﺨﻟا ﺮﺠﯿﺴﻟا عﻮﻧ شو ﺖﻧﺎﻛ ﺮﯿﺼﻗ ﺖﻗﻮﻟو
A. Myoclonic
B. Clonic
945. A 33-year-old man presented with shortness of breath, fatigue, and nighttime cough. He has been working in a car
repair shop for the past 1 year and notes that his symptoms began about 8 months ago. He believes his symptoms are
associated with his workdays. He is being evaluated after several days off from work and currently has no symptoms or
medical concerns. He has an unremarkable medical history and takes no medications. He has never smoked. Physical
examination is unremarkable. A chest radiograph and spirometry results are normal. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. High-resolution chest CT
B. Inhaled glucocorticoid daily
C. Advise him to switch employment
D. Repeat spirometry after workplace exposure
946. A 33-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis for 3 years is evaluated in the Emergency Department with a 3-day
history of pain and swelling of the left knee and low-grade fever. There was no history of trauma. Her medications are
prednisone, methotrexate, and etanercept. Joints examination reveals a swollen and tender left knee, and mild synovitis
is present on the third proximal interphalangeal joint bilaterally. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial
management?
A. Bone scan
B. Arthrocentesis of the left knee
C. Conventional radiology of the left knee
D. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the left knee
947. A 35-year-old man presents to the clinic with a 4-month history of fever, night sweats, fatigue, arthralgia, and lower
back pain. He had a history of unpasteurized milk ingestion. His examination reveals right knee arthritis and limited
spinal movements. His cardiopulmonary examination is unremarkable (see lab results and reports). Right knee joint
aspiration: WBC 15,000 (0-200). Blood culture: Negative. Which of the following is the most appropriate next action?
A. Liver biopsy
B. Bone marrow biopsy
C. Repeat blood culture
D. Serology for brucellosis
Q: A child living in a village presented with a history of drinking unpasteurized milk.
A. HSV 1

B. HSV 2
C. Brucellosis
D. Dangue
Answer: C. Brucellosis
Q: 12 y/o boy complaining of fever examinations is normal apart from having lymphadenopathy the
father said he have history of drinking of unpasteurized milk during farm trip
What is most diagnostic?
A- antibiotic titer
B- LFT
C- CBC
D- FNA
Answer: A
Q: 6 years old Patient with clear case of brucellosis. Hx of Drink raw milk patint had pain in the knee. Which if the
following is the first line treatment ?
A) Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole + Rifampicin for 6 week
B) Doxycycline + Rifampicin for 6 week
C) Ciprofloxacin for 4 week
D) Ceftriaxone for 4 week
Answer: A) Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole + Rifampicin for 6 week
Age < 8 Years ➔ A) Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole + Rifampicin for 6 week
Age > 8 Years ➔ B) Doxycycline + Rifampicin for 6 weeks
Q: A 35-year-old man presents to the clinic with a 4-month history of fever, fatigue, and lower back pain. He had a
history of unpasteurized milk ingestion. Which of the following is the most appropriate next action?
C. blood culture
D. Antibody titer
Q: 12 y/o boy complaining offever examinations is normal apart from having lymphadenopathy the
father said he have history of drinking of unpasteurized milk during farm trip
What is most diagnostic?
A- antibiotic titer
B-LFT

C-CBC
D-FNA
Answer: A
948. A 38-year-old woman with a 2-year history of depression presents to the clinic for followup. Her husband raised a
concern about suicide as she is looking more depressed and isolated recently. She denied any history of alcohol or
psychoactive substance use. During her clinical exam, there was no eye contact and her systemic exams were
unremarkable. Which of the following risk factors carries the highest risk for suicide?
A. Patient's age
B. Female gender
C. Social isolation
D. Absence of serious medical illnesses
949. A 55-year-old man with stage 2 chronic kidney disease is evaluated because of anemia. He is complaining of fatigue.
His physical examination reveals pale skin, otherwise unremarkable (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate investigation to be done?
A. Serum iron studies
B. Reticulocyte count
C. Serum erythropoietin level
D. Bone marrow aspiration
950. A 55-year-old woman with type 2 diabetes mellitus was recently diagnosed with hypertension. Which of the
following is the most appropriate antihypertensive medication?
A. Hydralazine
B. Amlodipine
C. Metoprolol
D. Ramipril
951. A 63-year-old woman presented with exertional dyspnea for 8 months. She was diagnosed with COPD 3 years ago
and has had 4 exacerbations in the last year. She completed pulmonary rehabilitation and quit smoking 2 years ago.
Medications include long-acting B2 agonist, inhaled glucocorticoid, roflumilast, and albuterol as needed. Examination
revealed no jugular venous distention; decreased breath sounds, a loud pulmonary component of S1 (see lab results and
reports). Chest radiograph: Normal. Echocardiogram: Ejection fraction of 60%, no valvular or wall motion
abnormalities, and estimated mean pulmonary artery pressure is 55 mmHg. Which of the following is the most
appropriate treatment?
A. Daily prednisone
B. Long-term oxygen therapy
C. Overnight pulse oximetry
D. Repeat pulmonary rehabilitation

952. A 68-year-old woman known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and endstage renal disease on
hemodialysis complains of shortness of breath and increasing bilateral lower limb swelling. She denies any fever, chest
pain, cough, abdominal pain, or vomiting. Examination reveals an ill-looking patient with high JVP and +3 lower limb
edema. ECG was ordered (see lab result). Which of the following is the most likely ECG finding?
A. Peaked T wave
B. Peaked P wave
C. Short PR interval
D. Narrow QRS complex
953. A 69-year-old man is diagnosed recently with lymphoma and started on chemotherapy. On day 7 post 4th cycle, he
presented to the Emergency Room with fever. Examination precludes any underlying infection (see lab results). Which
of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. NSAID and antifungal therapy
B. Oral antibiotics and send home
C. Blood culture and wait for sensitivity
D. Empiric IV antibiotics in a hospital setting
954. A 70-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department with a 2-hour history of confusion and irritability. He
was well until 5 days ago, when he injured his right leg and has been bed-bound since the accident. He is hypertensive
and wellcontrolled on medication. He has no fever (see reports). Chest X-ray: Normal. ECG: Sinus tachycardia. Which
of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Arrhythmia
B. Cerebral infarction
C. Brain hemorrhage
D. Pulmonary embolism
955. About pt known case of chronic HepB c/o fatigue, LOC and jaundice for 2 days used paracetamol in excessive
amount for his knee pain, have high liver enzyme .. long long scenario High ALT AST INR 2 Most appropriate mx?
A. IV corticosteroid
B. Acetylcysteine
C. Entecavir to treat acute hepatitis B
D. Plasmapheresis with Penicillamine
Q: A 19-year-old male with known hepatitis B presents with bilateral knee pain for 2 days and has been extensively
taking
paracetamol.
Serology:
HBsAb: negative
HBsAg: positive
HBeAg: negative
HBc IgG: positive

Lab:
AST over 2000
ALT were over 1000,
Bilirubin 27 ( normal 5.1 – 17.0 mmol/L)
INR was 2.something
What is the Most appropriate treatment
A. IV corticosteroid
B. N- Acetylcysteine
C. Entecavir to treat acute hepatitis B
D. Plasmapheresis with Penicillamine
Answer: B. N- Acetylcysteine
956. Typical case of brucellosis ( arthralgia, hepatosplenomegaly back pain hx of drink unpasteurized milk) no
neurological symptoms no labs no imaging What is the recommended duration of treatment?
A- 3 weeks
B- 6 weeks
C- 12 weeks
D- 21 weeks
957. A 60-year-old woman with recent history of feeling tiredness, fatigue and weight loss. She noticed as well worsening
of her chronic constipation. Stool for occult blood was positive (see lab results). Test Result Normal Values RBC 3 4.7-6.1
x 1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female) Hb 89 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) HCT 0.25 0.42-0.52 (Male)
0.37-0.48 (Female) Platelets count 234 150-400 × 109/L Which of the following is the best next step in diagnosis?
A. CT enterography
B. Barium enema
C. Sigmoidoscopy
D. Colonoscopy
958. Patient presented with weight loss (and other dyspepsia Symptoms) Gastric antrum Histopathology confirmed
Adenocarcinoma. How to stage the “T”?
A- Endoscopic US
B- Abdominal US
C- Nuclear scan
D- Gastrographic study
959. A 62-year-old man has been noticing progressive difficulty swallowing, first solid food and now liquids as well. A
barium study shows a ragged narrowing just below the carinal level. Endoscopic biopsy confirms squamous cell
carcinoma. Which of the following provides the most accurate information regarding the T stage of an esophageal
carcinoma?

A. Computed tomography
B. Positron emission tomography
C. Magnetic resonance imaging
D. Endoscopic ultrasound
E. Bronchoscopy
960. A child exhibits scissoring of the legs when held upright. MRI reveals periventricular leukomalacia. Which of the
following is most strongly support the diagnosis?
A. Static motor delay
B. Bilateral lower limb spasticity
C. Prematurity
D. Periventricular white matter changes on MRI
961. Female 49yo did Colposcopy and show CIN 3 MOST APPROPRIATE Management?
A-Conization
B-Hysterectomy
C-HPV vaccine
D-Repeate Colposcopy
962. Pregnant woman with abdominal pain and doctor ordered abdominal ray for her after she done the ray the doctor
realized that she was pregnant, how prevent this error?
A. Proceed with the imaging
B. Order US
C. Detect fetal age
963. Primigravida, present at 39 gestation. Her fetus is at 8th%. What is the best intrapartum surveillance use for health
promotion and complications prevention for her ?
A. Maternal vital signs monitoring
B. Intermittent fetal heart rate monitoring
C. Continuous electrical fetal monitoring as high risk
Q:

964. A 10 YO child with URTI 2 weeks ago brought by mother concerned because his uncle has leukemia and his
brother has retinoblastoma. What is the most appropriate next step?
A- CBC
B- CXR
C- Referral to ophthalmology
D- BRCA 1&2
Q: 10 years old male child come to clinic with mild URTI , his mother cncern because he has family history of
malignancy. his uncle diagnosed with leukemia at the age of 10 , and his brother have hx of rtinoblastoma , she concern
about the condition What is the appropriate management?
A- CXR to exclude Leukemia
B- BRCA 1&2
C- CBC to to exclude anemia
D- refer to ophtha to assess for Retinoblastoma
Q: MOST COMMON LEUKEMIA IN CHILDREN?
ALL
965. 45-year-old woman P6 is complaining of chronic pelvic pain and heavy menstruation (see report). Pelvic MRI:
Diffuse thickened myometrium. Which of the following is the most definitive treatment for her condition?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Hormonal IUD
C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Dilatation and curettage
966. Case Of Post-Operative Fever - 4 days post abdominal surgery, pale, hypotensive with cold extremities. how to
confirm iV fluid level in patient who is being treated for dehydration?
A- CVP 8
B- MAP 45
C- urine output 0.1 ml/kg/h
D- lactate= 2

967. Patient came to ER with burns all over the body after intubation and resuscitation what will indicate good fluid…
A. Urine 0.1 ml/kg/hr
B. MAP = 45
C. CVP = 8
D. Lactate 2
968. female admitted for mycoplasma pneumonia was started on antibiotics and supportive therapy. On day 3 she
developed yellowish discoloration of the eyes and mild abdominal pain. Labs: Hb 68 g/L (low) Reticulocytes 4%
(elevated) Haptoglobin low LDH high normal ALT high AST. What is the appropriate management?
A. Observe
B. Stop antibiotics
C. Corticosteroids
D. Oral Rituximab answer
Q: 30 year-old female, diagnosed with mycoplasma pneumonia and was started on antibiotics and supportive
therapy. 2 days later she started complaining of yellowing of her eyes and mild abdominal pain.
Her labs show: -
Hb 60 –
Retics high –
LDH elevated –
Haptoglobin 0.3 (low) –
PLT normal - WBC normal -there were other labs like LFT and was normal
What is the appropriate management?
A. Observe
B. Stop antibiotics
C. start corticosteroids
D. start rituximab
969. 30-year-old 7 weeks' pregnant woman presented with mild vaginal bleeding. .Examination revealed a closed cervix.
Ultrasound: 7 weeks' viable intrauterine pregnancy. Which of the following is the most appropriate next management
step?
A. Conservative
B. Intravenous oxytocin
C. Dilatation and curettage
D. Intramuscular methergine
970. 10 years old girl came to the ER complaining from RLQ abdominal pain that associated with nausea and 3 times
vomiting, there is pain and rebound tenderness in examination. What is the diagnosis?

A- Appendicitis
B- Intussusception
C- Meckel's diverticulum
Q: 14 years old female came with periumbilical pain shift to the right with right tenderness anorexia mild diarrhea +
dysuria, no vomiting no previous similar history no fever on exam abdomen soft but right tenderness increase with
cough, Dx?
A) Appendicitis
B) Gastroenteritis
C) Right ureteric stone
D) UTI
971. Country conduct study of maternal mortality found there is 450 maternal death due to complication of pregnancy
and childbirth , and there is in the same year 200,000 life birth. Which of the following is representing maternity
mortality rate?
A) 225 per 100,00 life birth
B) 450 per 100,00 life birth
C) 450 per 200,000 life birth
D) 0.450% per life birth
972. A 70-year-old man presents to the Emergency Department with generalized fatigability. Two days ago, he
underwent a contrast-enhanced CT brain scan for suspected transient ischemic attack. Physical examination is
unremarkable. Vital signs show blood pressure of 130/70 mmHg and heart rate of 76/min. Laboratory investigations
reveal: Hb: 170 g/L (normal) Urea: 30.4 mmol/L (elevated) Creatinine: 378 µmol/L (elevated) What is the most likely
mechanism for the renal impairment?
A. Pre-renal azotemia
B. Acute tubular necrosis
C. Acute interstitial nephritis
D. Acute glomerular nephritis
Woman with diarrhea and they said on examination she seems dehydrated. She visited her clinic last week; creatinine
was
60.
Now presenting with:
Plasma
Creatinine: 160
BUN: 11
Na: 133
Urine:
Urine sodium: 60

Osmolality: 220
A. Acute tubular necrosis
B. Prerenal
C. Acute on chronic kidney disease
A. Acute tubular necrosis
973. 4 years old starting experiencing bone pain, fever, and something for 3 weeks. Examination: abdominal
hepatosplenomegaly only Labs: platelet 70 WBC 30 Hgb low ( between 8-11 ? ) Nothing else is given What is the
indicated diagnostic test?
A- Epstein bar PCR
B- Bone marrow biopsy
974. 2 years old boy was playing with his brother and fell downstairs had brief jircky movements at home and on exam
was drwosy and lathergic What is the most appropriate ( without next)
Ct brain
Observe
Blood electrolytes
Neurosurgery referral
✅
CT brain without contrast
- Observation is only for low-risk patients with normal mental status.
- Blood electrolytes not correct: Seizure here is trauma-related, not metabolic.
- Neurosurgery referral: Referral comes after imaging if CT shows pathology.
975. A 40-year-old G9 P6026 at 9 weeks' gestation presents with vaginal spotting and mild abdominal pain. Ultrasound
shows a 5-week gestational size and no fetal heart detected. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in
management?
A. Misoprostol
B. Mifepristone
C. Dilatation and curettage
D. Conservative management
976. A 6 weeks child present with absent red reflex in left eye (leukocoria), he is developing normally. What is the
diagnosis?
A- Toxocariasis
B- Retinoblastoma
C- Congenital Cataract

B/C???
977. Child has r knee swelling and l knee pain with exertion and Hx of previous URTI , I don’t remember the stem -
streptococcus vaccination
978. baby has diarrhea and previously admitted due to diarrhea and curelnty his brother is admitted for the same
reason and mother asking how to prevent it.
Vaccination of the pathogen
979. boy with bacterial sinusitis , started on amoxicillin, didn’t improve after 3 days , what to do ?
A. Reassure
B. ent referral
C. change to amoxi clav
Q: Pt presents with fever stuffed nose headaches for which he was diagnosed with bacterial sinusitis but has shown no
improvement after 72hrs of using amoxicillin
What to do now
A. Refer to ENT
B.CT Sinuses
C. change medication to Amoxicillin clavulanate for 10 days
D. change diagnosis
Answer: C
980. 90 year old male living in residential community comes complaining of severe abdominal pain in the last 24 hours.
The abdomen was soft and lax, tender all over, hyperactive abdominal sounds. (no rigidity) What is the next step:
A. Colonoscopy
B. Sigmoidoscopy
C. US abdomen
D. DRE
981. 30 years old male , on vit d supplements because he had deficiency , polyurea , polydipsia , normal urine osmolality ,
slightly high pth , very low c peptide , family hx of dm, niece with dm type 1 , what’s the diagnosis :
A. type 1
B. type 2
C. Diabetes Insipidus
D. hyper parathyroidism
982. Preterm baby 9 months now who can’t sit

A. reassure because he’s only 6 months chronologically
Q: A nine month old unit was delivered in severe preterm about 28 weeks. He was all fine, but he couldn’t hold his head when sitting
the mother was worried about it. What’s he gonna do?
A- tell her that he is now six months old because he’s pre term
B- evaluate, depending on the chronological age
C- missing
D- pediatric neurological refer
Q: 9 month old cannot sit, preterm baby
A. Reassess based on corrected age
B. Refer to neurology
983. Female in 40s و murmurلا تﺎﻔﺻاﻮﻣ شو ﺔﯿﺳﺎﻧ murmur High BP ﻲﺷ ﻢھا شو لﻮﻘﯾ لاﻮﺴﻟاو ﺎھﺪﻨﻋو preventive تارﺎﯿﺨﻟا :
A. Immediately echo
B. Annual flexible sigmoidoscopy
C. Antibiotic before dental procedures
984. 2 months old, dilerved premature at 34 weeks Q about how to give him vaccine
A- wait till 6 months and start from there something like this
B- follow his chronological age

985. 38 years old female patient known diagnosed of ulcerative colitis 6 or 8 yaers ago “dont remember exactly when one
of therm”, she is on maintenance therapy “did not specify the treatment “ came to PHC for follow up and asking when
she do colonoscopy, only complain for her is “PERIanal pain”, otherwise normal
A- now as she has perianal pain
B- at age of 50 then every 10years
C- 8-10 years after diagnosis of ulcerative colitis
986. 32 years old male admitted for motor vehicle accident, after initially stabilization and multiple surgical
interventions for fractures. He is in pos-op care Which of the following is the most appropriate preventive measures?
A) extend bed rest
B) give high dose corticosteroid
C) early mobilization and physiotherapy
D) Embirical antibiotic therapy for 5 days
987. A mother brings her daughter for a pre-school follow-up visit. She is concerned because her daughter has shown
decreased physical activity, gets easily fatigued during outdoor play, and spends a lot of time watching TV. The child’s
weight is within the expected range, and there are no other concerning symptoms. Which of the following is the most
appropriate recommendation to improve her energy and activity levels?
A. Give multivitamin supplements to increase energy
B. Increase caloric intake
C. Referral to endocrinology
D. Encourage increased physical activity and limit screen time
988. Q similar to this but another disease 50 case of meningococcal meningitis 5 died What is the case fatality
A- 5%
B- 10%
C- 15%
D- 20%
989. After delivery, asymptomatic, positive urine culture and sensitivity to a ( list of antibiotics) ف تادﺎﻀﻤﻟا ﻞﻛ ﻂﺣ تارﺎﯿﺨﻟا
A. No treatment
990. Chest X-ray: 5-cm irregular mass in the right upper lobe. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy: Tumor in the right upper lobe
bronchus. Biopsy: Squamous cell carcinoma. Whole body FDG-PET scan: Negative for metastasis. Which of the
following is the most appropriate action while preparing him for surgery?
A. Repeat PET scan in 3 months
B. Pulmonary function tests
C. Chemotherapy
D. Radiotherapy

991.
992. Elderly female patient with cancer who informed the nurse before losing consciousness that she did not wish to be
resuscitated or receive further treatment. After she lost consciousness, her sons are now insisting on proceeding with resuscitation
and treatment despite her prior wishes. What is the most appropriate course of action?
A. Respect her previously wishes and do not perform resuscitation.
B- Do the treatment as her son insists or something like that
993. A 60-year-old patient with controlled Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (DM) has missed their last two scheduled
appointments at the diabetes clinic. Which of the following IOM domains of quality will help the patient to adhere to his
appointments?
A. Patient-Centeredness
B. Timeliness
C. Efficiency
D. Safety
994. A 50-year-old man is 6 days post-uneventful subtotal colectomy and ileocolic anastomosis when he develops
sudden-onset shortness of breath and one episode of hemoptysis. Examination reveals mildly decreased breath sounds at

the left lung base, normal S1 and S2, a soft and lax abdomen with normal bowel sounds, and no lower extremities edema
or tenderness (see lab results and reports). Chest X-ray: Left basilar atelectasis. ECG: Sinus tachycardia and a new
finding of a right bundle branch block. Which of the following is the most appropriate test?
A. D-dimer level
B. Echocardiography
C. CT pulmonary angiography
D. Lower limb Doppler ultrasound
995. 65-year-old woman with long-standing chronic renal failure presents with aches and pains for 1 month. Physical
examination is unremarkable apart from general pallor (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate
next step in management?
A. Oral calcitriol
B. Oral vitamin D3
C. Oral vitamin D2
D. Calcitonin nasal spray
996. A 69-year-old man known to have diabetes mellitus, presented to Emergency department with 4-day history of
productive cough and tachypnea. On examination, oriented to time place and person. Chest exam revealed right lower
lobe crepitation (see lab results and report). Respiratory rate 23 /min Temperature 38.5 °C WBC 12 4.5-10.5 x 109/L
Urea 5 2.75-7.4 mmol/L Chest X-Ray: Right lower lobe infiltrate. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management approach?
A. Admit to general ward and start IV antibiotics
B. Admit to Intensive care unit and start IV antibiotics
C. Start oral antibiotics and observe in Emergency Room for 24 hours
D. Start oral antibiotics and see in outpatient clinic in 7-days
997. A 50-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. presents to the Nephrology Clinic for
follow-up (see image and lab results). Blood pressure 160/98 mmHg Heart rate 80 /min Test Result Normal Values
Potassium 6.5 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Creatinine 440 44- 115 mol/L. ECG: peaked T waves. Which of the following is the best
immediate step in management?
A. Intravenous calcium gluconate
B. Intravenous NAHCO3
C. Insulin with dextrose
D. Dialysis
998. A 25-year-old patient sustained a blunt trauma to the right chest wall; there was paradoxical movement of the right
side of the chest (see report). Heart rate 96 /min Respiratory rate 35 /min Oxygen saturation 84 % Chest X-ray:
Fracture 2nd through 4th ribs at more than 1 site. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial management?
A- Fluid resuscitation
B- Assisted ventilation and analgesia
C- Needle decompression

D- Thoracostomy chest tube
A 25 year old patient sustained a blunt trauma to the right chest wall. There was paradoxical movement of the right side of the
chest. Heart rate 96/min. Respiratory rate 35 breath per minute, Oxygen saturation 84% chest x-ray fracture 2nd to 4th ribs
at more than one site. Which of the following is the most important initial management?
A.Fluid resuscitation
B.Assistant ventilation
C.Needle decompression
D.Thoracostomy chest tube.
Answer: B
999. A 35-year-old woman 9 weeks pregnant presented with a history of palpitations, heat intolerance and anxiety for
several weeks, otherwise she feels well. Her only medication is a prenatal vitamin. On physical examination, she has
warm and moist Skin with fine tremor. There is no ophthalmology. Examination of the neck shows a diffusely enlarged
thyroid with an audible bruit. Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examinations are unremarkable (see lab results). Which
of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Observation
B. Propylthiouracil
C. Radioactive iodine
D. Thyroidectomy
1000. A couple came to the clinic due to primary infertility, IVF went successfully but there was excess amount of
cryopreserved sperm what to do about it? )not exact citation but same concept
A. Keep it for use for indefinite time
B. Its prohibited ethically and religiously
C. Keep it for a specific time frame then ethically discard it
D. Keep it in a government-authorized fertility center
1001. A female in her early pregnancy, presented with vaginal bleeding and pain. She noted passing some tissue at home.
On examination, her cervix was open. US: intrauterine tissue. What is the type of abortion?
A. Incomplete
B. Complete
C. Inevitable
D. Septic
1002. A 6/8 weeks pregnant female presented. Her previous delivery was postterm at 41 weeks. What to do in this
pregnancy to prevent this?
A. Early dating scan
B. Progesterone to start at 16 weeks
C. Aspirin
D. Encourage ambulation in last few weeks of pregnancy

1003. Women came with postpartum hemorrhage after spontaneous vaginal delivery, uterotonics failed to stop the
bleeding. What is the first-line surgical management?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Balloon tamponade
C. Uterine artery embolization
1004. A 25-year-old woman presented to the clinic for antenatal care. Her last period was 6 weeks back. She is spotting
on and off with no pain (see lab result and report). Transvaginal Ultrasound: No intrauterine pregnancy seen. Which of
the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A- Give methotrexate
B- Repeat BhCG level in 48 hours
C- Repeat ultrasound in 48 hours
D- Reassure the patient and send her home
1005. A Child brought by his mother with lethargy, pallor, low grade subjective fever, lymphadenopathy for 2 months,
What’s initial to Confirm diagnosis?
A. Blood film
B. Virology screening
C. Bone marrow examination
1006. Case of retinoblastoma 2 year child with absent red reflective. How to diagnose and stage?
A. Head CT
B. Brain MRI
1007. A 61-year-old obese man presented with daytime somnolence, poor concentration, nocturia, and progressive
shortness of breath. Examination reveals an obese patient with bilateral lower limb edema and normal vesicular breath
sounds on lung auscultation. Which of the following is the most appropriate investigation to establish the diagnosis?
A. Chest X-ray
B. Sleep study
C. Echocardiography

D. High-resolution CT lung
1008. A patient with highly suspicious pulmonary tuberculosis is evaluated in the Emergency Department. Standard
universal precautions are taken. Which of the following is the most appropriate infection control precaution during the
assessment?
A. Standard precautions
B. Standard and droplet precautions
C. Standard and contact precautions
D. Standard and airborne precautions
1009. A 17-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department with severe asthma exacerbation that began 12 hours
ago. He is on an albuterol inhaler and a long-acting glucocorticoid at home without improvement. He was hospitalized
and intubated 2 years ago. Examination revealed respiratory distress with diffuse expiratory wheezes. After 1 hour of
systemic glucocorticoid and B2 agonist nebulizer, he still appeared in respiratory distress (see lab results and report).
Chest X-ray: Hyperinflated lungs. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Admit to the ICU
B. Reassure him and discharge home
C. Admit to the general medical floor
D. Discharge home the next day with follow-up
1010. A 30-year-old woman is evaluated for new-onset nonproductive cough and dyspnea on exertion. She is pregnant at
30 weeks gestation. Medical history is unremarkable. Her only medication is a prenatal vitamin. Cardiopulmonary
examination is normal. She has a gravid uterus and 2+ edema of the lower extremities without calf tenderness. Doppler
ultrasonography of both legs is negative for deep venous thrombosis (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate diagnostic test to perform next?
A. D-dimer assay
B. CT angiography
C. Pulmonary function test
D. Ventilation-perfusion lung scan
1011. A 48-year-old woman is evaluated for persistent fever and flank pain. She was admitted several days ago for
treatment of pyelonephritis. Her fever is persistent after 5 days of starting an appropriate antibiotic. Examination
reveals tenderness over the left loin area, otherwise unremarkable (see report). Urine culture: Positive for Escherichia
coli susceptible to the antibiotic that was already started. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Kidney ultrasound
B. Change the antibiotic
C. Repeat urine culture
D. Continue observation
1012. A study about covid vaccine was conducted, 10000 participants were divided into 2 groups randomly, the first
group will take covid vaccine and the second group will take placebo. What is the type of study?
A. Cohort study

B. Case-Control study
C. Cross-sectional study
D. Randomized clinical trial
1013. Man 6 months after bariatric surgery successfully losing weight and adherent to his diet and exercise but he is
worried about long term success, he is at which of the following stages?
A. Action
B. Maintenance
C. Contemplation
D. Pre-contemplation
1014. 20s years old female nurse called emergency dispatch and complained about Major depression disorder symptoms
including suicidal ideation, discontinued her medications, what is the best step to ensure confidentiality?
A. Discuss her case with the mental health team
B. Ask colleague for their input
C. Tell her employer
D. Document the information and call her family immediately
1015. Pelvic fracture with BP 88/55. Next step?
A. Bed rest
B. Laparotomy
C. IV fluids
D. Blood transfusion
1016. A 60-year-old man with type 1 diabetes is on insulin lispro (rapid-acting) and glargine (longacting). He works out
after lunch and recently experienced hypoglycemia after exercise. What is the best way to prevent postexercise
hypoglycemia?
A- Eat more carbohydrates before the workout
B- Change both insulins to a sulfonylurea
C- Skip lispro when working out
D- Dose glargine in the morning
1017. Female with depression admitted for for non-controlled HTN due to non-adherence to
A. Share psychiatric history with the medical team
B. Ask colleague for their input
C. Tell her employer
D. Share mental history with the medical team that would be relevant to treatment

1018. SLE patient on drugs Low haptoglopin 0.2 High LDH 1200 What type of anemia
A. IDA ( iron and ferritin were normal in labs )
B. Anemia of chronic disease
C. Pernicious
D. Hemolytic
1019. Pediatric patient came with dull headache that wakes him from sleep, has photosensitivity. Asking which of the
following indication for neuroimaging?
A. Doesn’t relive with analgesics
B. Photosensitivity
C. Wakes him up from sleep
D. Recurrent vomiting with headache
1020. 4 months old infant is brought to the clinic due to cyanosis during crying and poor weight gain. and growth is
below the 3rd centile admitted as case of Tracheomalacia. What is the next best step in management?
A. Inhaled corticosteroids
B. Give home oxygen
C. Refer for Surgical consultation
D. Inhaled b2 agonist
Q: patient with tracheomalacia presents with recurrent pneumonia and failure to thrive. What ;
management?
• Conservative observation
• Surgical correction
Q: A 4 months old baby presents with monophasic expiratory wheeze. He is at the 50th percentile for weight and normal height. There
is no
respiratory distress. These features suggest tracheomalacia.
What is the most appropriate management?
A. Nebulized short-acting beta-agonist (SABA)
B. Systemic steroids
C. Reassure
D. Tracheostomy
Answer: C. Reassure
Q: infant with tracheomalachia present with grunting and cyanosis: Rx?
A.Systemic steroid
B. Home oxygen
C. Refer to surgery

D.Albuterol
1021. A newborn had meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS) and was managed appropriately. Which of the following is
a common complication?
A. Neonatal sepsis
B. Pulmonary hypertension
C. Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
D. Diaphragmatic hernia
1022. Newborn preterm baby from a mother with a gestational diabetes came with grunting and respiratory distress.
next step?
A) Chest x ray ??
B) Blood glucose ??
C) Blood culture
A newborn product of 33 weeks, having grunting and respiratory distress (short no vitals or other info)
C. IV Crystalloid
D. Oxygen support and close monitor
Answer: D
1023. Child: Flinching when parents raise their voice, fearfulness, withdrawal+Multiple bruises? Parents stories do not
align with the injuries
A-inform some sort of family authority
1024. A 5-year-old child with bronchial asthma under control with inhalers. Mother concerned about the future of her
child's asthma during adulthood. Which of the following is the most likely prognosis?
A. Chronic lung disease
B. Most of the children grow out of it
C. Asthmatic during adulthood
D. No correlation between childhood and adulthood asthma
1025. A teenager with acne is treated with retinoids. The physician wants to post before-and-after photos on TikTok.
What is the most appropriate action?
A. Seek patient consent
B. No consent needed if the patient is not identifiable
C. Posting is acceptable due to educational benefit

1026. Test Result Normal Values Sodium 127 134-146 mmol/L Potassium 6.8 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Bicarbonate 15 21-28
mmol/L Glucose 2.5 2.8-5 mmol/L. (Newborn) 3.3 -5.5 mmol/L (Child) Which of the following is the inheritance of this
disease?
A. Multifactorial
B. X-linked dominant
C. Autosomal dominant
D. Autosomal recessive
1027. A 35-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthris who maintained on methotrexate 15 mg weekly. She iscurrently on
remission. 4 months ago, her liver fune on tests were normal but the most recent liver function tests are shown (see lab
results). Test Result Normal Values Aspartate aminotransferase 300 12-40 10/L Alanine aminotransferase 280 5-40 IU/L
Albumin 30 34-56 g/L What is the most appropriate ac on to be done for her abnormal liver fune Don tests?
A. Do ultrasound for the liver
B. Start Glucocorticoids
C. Stop methotrexate
D. Order liver biopsy
1028. A 2-years-old girl who has never received any vaccinations due to her mother’s personal beliefs, was injured by a
contaminated metal rod. Shortly afterward, she developed muscle spasms and convulsions. Based on her clinical
presentation, which vaccine should she receive?
A. DTaP
B. OPV
C. IPV
D. Hib
1029. Patient is scheduled for a laparoscopic appendectomy in a private hospital. The doctor explained all the steps of
the procedure and the possible complications, and also mentioned that if complications occur, they may need to convert
to open surgery. How do you ensure that the patient agrees?
A. Take the bill of the procedure
B. Take verbal consent from the family
C. Write short notes with his consent
D. Write detailed notes including what the patient understood
1030. toddler pt came with SOB, and plapiation upon excersie, history reveales URTI 3 days ago, examination reveales
gallop rythum, vitals were provided, high HR, what clue you into diagnosis?
A. history
B. tachypnea
C. tachycardia
D. gallop rhythm
1031. A Researcher wants to do a research on a new screening test (I think). What the participant right?

A- Can withdrawal anytime
B- You tell the positive cases about their diagnosis
C- Tell the negative about the diagnosis
1032. A 27-year-old woman with asthma has not had a severe attack for the last 3 months. However, she has a history of
cough and wheezing 2-3 times each week. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Ipratropium bromide
B. Inhaled corticosteroid
C. Salbutamol
D. Salmeterol
1033. A 50-year-old woman presents with nausea, vomiting, and muscle aches. She is 6 days postoperative and is unable
to pass stool, with abdominal distension. Laboratory results show hypokalemia. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. ECG
B. Urine potassium
C. Stool potassium
D. Urine osmolality
1034. A 5-year-old child presents with recurrent upper respiratory tract infections. The mother reports that the child
frequently complains of sore throat, nasal congestion, and fever. The child has a history of asthma, and the mother states
that she uses a metered-dose inhaler with a spacer as prescribed. On examination, there is mild wheeze, sore throat, and
erythema. What is the most important educational advice to give the mother?
A.Stop inhaler use during colds
B. Avoid physical activity until adolescence
C.Ensure proper use of the inhaler as prescribed
D.Advise giving the child vitamin C–containing juices
1035. A child presents with wheezing that worsens during feeding and crying. On examination, there is monophasic
bilateral expiratory wheezing. What is the most appropriate way to advise the parents?
A. Nebulized bronchodilator
B. Systemic steroids
C. Reassurance that it will mostly resolve spontaneously
D. Tracheostomy
1036. A child presents with weight loss despite increased appetite, heat intolerance, palpitations, tremors, and
irritability. Laboratory investigations show elevated free T4 and suppressed TSH levels. What is the most appropriate
initial treatment?
A. Methimazole

B. Levothyroxine
C. Surgery
D. Radioactive iodine
Q: 32 year old pregnant lady in 3rd trimester was complaining of palpitations and sweating and heat
intolerance along being restless she have notice a large goiter but no dyspnea or difficult swallowing
and change in both orbits that became more prominent.
ECG -sinus tachycardia.
CBC -LFT – RFT within normal.
TSH 0.1 ( low ) ,
T4 10 ( high ).
Thyroid Scan showed diffuse homogenous uptake.
Anti-Thyroid Stimulating Antibody is pending.
what is your next step for management?*
A-Thyroidectomy
B-Radio-active Iodine Therapy
C-Methimazole
D-Propylthiouracil.
1037. A patient with hepatorenal syndrome presents with low serum albumin and hyponatremia. What is the most likely
type of hyponatremia in this patient?
A- Euvolemic hyponatremia
B- Hypervolemic hyponatremia
C- Hypovolemic hyponatremia
D- Pseudohyponatremia
Q: A patient with hepatorenal syndrome( not directly mentioned) presents with hepatomegaly, ascites and lower limb
edema,
ascites , distended Jugular vein
Investigation:
Sodium 111 (Low)
Low albumin
What is the most likely type of hyponatremia in this patient?
A. Euvolemic hyponatremia
B. Hypervolemic hyponatremia
C. Hypovolemic hyponatremia
D. Pseudohyponatremia

1038. A nurse observes improper hygiene practices by a surgeon prior to surgery. What is the most appropriate action?
A. Refrain from informing the surgeon
B. Politely inform the surgeon of the concern
C. Report to another physician to address the issue
D. Wait until after the surgery, then report to hospital authorities
1039. A nurse is reviewing a patient’s fi le before surgery and notices that the allergy history is not documented.
According to the surgical safety checklist, at which stage should allergies be confi rmed?
A. Sign in
B. Sign out
C. Time out .
D. Postoperative
1040. A woman undergoing a cesarean section has already signed consent for the procedure. During surgery, she
develops severe, uncontrollable hemorrhage that does not respond to conservative measures. The surgeon decides that a
hysterectomy is required to save her life. What is the most appropriate action?
A. Obtain consent from her husband before performing hysterectomy
B. Proceed with hysterectomy without consent because it is life-saving
C. Do only what she consented for and do not proceed with hysterectomy
Q: A woman undergoing a cesarean section experiences uncontrollable bleeding. A hysterectomy is considered
life-saving, decided after consultation with a senior consultant. The patient previously consented only to CS only. What
is the best option?
A) Employ conservative measures until consent for further intervention is obtained
B) Proceed with the hysterectomy without additional consent
C) Obtain consent from the father before proceeding with the hysterectomy.
D) Adhere strictly to patient initial consent and limit interventions to those previously agreed
1041. In a village, there were 50 deaths among children under five years of age out of a total population of 2,000 children
under five. Calculate the mortality rate?
A. 50 per 1,000
B. 25 per 1,000
1042. A 23-year-old woman presents with cyclical breast tenderness, bloating, food cravings, fatigue, anxiety, and
emotional lability that occur in the week before menses and resolve shortly after menstruation. She asks about the best
non-pharmacological method to prevent her symptoms.
A. Physical exercise

B. Yoga
C. Hot baths
D. Decaffeinated drinks
1043. A 17-year-old primigravida presents to the clinic for the fi rst time after missing her period, LMP 9 weeks ago, and
with a positive home pregnancy test. Pelvic examination reveals a closed cervical os with no bleeding (see report).
Transvaginal Ultrasound: An intrauterine gestational sac with a crown-rump length of 9 weeks’ gestation with no
embryonic heartbeat. Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion?
A. Septic
B. Missed
C. Inevitable
D. Threatened
Q: 34 female at 34 weeks of gestation come to emergency department with fetal death without any fetal expulsion for at least 8
weeks
Type of abortion?
Missed
Incomplete
Thretened
Recurrent
1044. A 23-year-old G4 P1112 with a history of abortion in her last pregnancy presents to the Emergency Room with
vaginal spotting. Her LMP 7 weeks earlier. No abdominal pain or cramping reported and denies any vaginal discharge.
On examination, abdominal tenderness detected, uterus not palpable. Cervical os closed. Which of the following is the
most likely diagnosis?
A. Missed abortion
B. Normal pregnancy
C. Inevitable abortion
D. Threatened abortion
Q: A 23-year-old woman presented at 10 weeks of gestation with a history of vaginal bleeding, cramp-like pain, and
passage of some placental tissue through the cervix.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion?
A. Complete
B. Inevitable
C. Incomplete
D. Threatened
Answer: C

0413. A 30-year-old woman G2 P1 L1, whose last menstrual period was 7 weeks ago, presented to the Emergency Room
with lower abdominal pain and moderate vaginal bleeding, passing
tissue. Examination revealed an open cervix with tissue seen at the cervix.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Missed abortion
B. Ectopic pregnancy
C. Healthy pregnancy
D. Incomplete abortion
Answer: D
0316. A 25-year-old pregnant woman presented with a history of vaginal bleeding and passed tissue at home.
Examination revealed an open cervix. Ultrasound: Intrauterine tissue.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion she had?
A. Complete
B. Inevitable
C. Incomplete
D. Threatened
Answer: C
Q: A 22-year-old primigravida at 7 weeks' gesta7on is brought to Emergency Department complaining of moderate
vaginal bleeding with
passage of tissue like material and lower abdominal colicky pain. Speculum examination; tissue is in the vagina, uterine
cervix is
opened and admieng one finger. Product of conception is protruding through cervical canal. Bimanual reveals bulky
uterus
corresponding to seven-eight weeks gestation. Adnexa were free and there was no cervical .
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Inevitable abortion
B. Incomplete abortion.
C. Threatened
D. Complete molar pregnancy
B. Incomplete abortion (MG)
Q: A 25-year-old woman G5 P2022 presented to the clinic at 10 weeks' gestation with painless vaginal bleeding. During
her hospital
admission, she developed heavy vaginal bleeding and lower abdominal pain. She has noticed passage of tissue. On
examination, mild

pain, vital signs normal. Pelvic examination showed trickling blood through cervix and os is open.
Which of the following is most likely diagnosis?
A. Inevitable abortion
B. Incomplete abortion
C. Threatened abortion
D. Septic incomplete abortion
B. Incomplete abortion (MG)
Q: A 17-year-old primigravida presents to the clinic for the first time, missing her period. LMP was 9 weeks ago,
and she had a positive home pregnancy test. Pelvic examination reveals a closed cervical os with mild bleeding.
Transvaginal ultrasonography: Intrauterine gestational sac with a crown-rump length of 9 weeks of gestation
with positive embryonic heartbeat.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion?
A. Septic
B. Missed
C. Inevitable
D. Threatened
Answer: D (GB)
A 25-year-old pregnant woman presented with abdominal cramps and mild vaginal bleeding. Examination
revealed an open cervix with mild bleeding. Ultrasound: A 7-week viable intrauterine pregnancy.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion she had?
A. Missed
B. Inevitable
C. Incomplete
D. Threatened
Answer: B (GB)
Q: A 17-year-old primigravida presents to the clinic for the first time, missing her period. LMP was 9 weeks ago, and she
had a positive home pregnancy test. Pelvic
examination reveals a closed cervical os with mild bleeding. Transvaginal ultrasonography: Intrauterine gestational sac
with a crown-rump length of 9 weeks of
gestation with positive embryonic heartbeat.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion?
A. Septic
B. Missed

C. Inevitable
D. Threatened
Answer: D (GB)
A 25-year-old pregnant woman presented with abdominal cramps and mild vaginal bleeding. Examination revealed an
open cervix with mild bleeding. Ultrasound:
A 7-week viable intrauterine pregnancy.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion she had?
A. Missed
B. Inevitable
C. Incomplete
D. Threatened
Answer: B (GB)
A 33-year-old 7 weeks' pregnant woman presented with mild vaginal bleeding. Examination revealed a closed cervix.
Ultrasound: A 7-week viable intrauterine
pregnancy.
Which of the following is the most likely type of abortion she had?
A. Missed
B. Inevitable
C. Threatened
D. Incomplete
Answer: C (GB)
1045. A 28 year old female presented following radiation of neck with neck swelling. Ultrasound showed swelling in the
left lobe of the thyroid of 3x4cm of papillary thyroid cancer. Which of the following is the best management?
A. Left Lobectomy
B. Left Lobectomy with Isthmusectomy
C. Subtotal Thyroidectomy
D. Total Thyroidectomy
1046. A 12-year-old boy with end-stage cancer and metastases to the femur and spine has a documented
do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order. What is the most appropriate management to help him at this stage?
A. Inotropic support
B. Mechanical ventilation
C. Morphine
D. Nothing to do

1047. An 80-year-old man with known heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) and atrial fi brillation
presents with palpitations for 3 months. He denies shortness of breath, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, or
chest pain. Vital signs : BP: 110/70 mmHg HR: 130 bpm RR: 18/min O₂ saturation: 95% Temperature: 36.6°C Which of
the following is the most appropriate drug?
A. Digoxin
B. Diltiazem
C. Ivabradine
D. Propranolol
1048. A doctor sends the cancer screening results to an elderly patient via his personal email, what is the problem with
this?
A. Email may be accessed by unauthorized individuals
B. Patient may not understand the terms used in the email
C. Patient may have forgotten his password
1049. There is a question about a doctor who gave the wrong dose to a pt, and the nurse noticed. And the pt was
discharged but came later with severe symptoms(or something like that) how to prevent that?
A -when any pt want to discharge his medications should be reviewed by a doctor
B -When prescribing drugs on the system an alert will show
C -The nurses should review the drugs after the doctor
Q: Patient diagnosed with HTN , Doctor did Wrong prescription mistakenly, pharmacist noticed but thought doctor
alert , after that patient develop severe BP drop , which of the following need to be done to prevent this type of mistake ?
A- double check by nurse
B- patient review medication before leave hospital
C- training to do best prescribing
هﺮﯿﺒﻛ ﺔﻋﺮﺟ ﻒﺻﻮﯾ رﻮﺘﻛﺪﻟا ﺎﻤﻟ تﺮﯿﻟا ﻲﻄﻌﯾ ﺮﺘﯾﻮﺒﻤﻜﻟا ﻲﻠﺨﻧ ﻲﺷ ﺲﺑ ﺎﮭﻐﯿﺻا ﺖﻓﺮﻋﺎﻣ alert in order physician computerised 4-
1050. 6 weeks infant complaining of forceful vomiting after each meal , poor weight gain and dehydration. What is the
most appropriate next step?
A. Barium study
B. Abdominal ultrasound
1051. 43 yo gravid all normal abdomen soft lax , RT renal bruit during auscultation to confirm diagnosis
A. CT kindy
B. Abdomen US
C. abdomen radiography
1052. pregnant come for follow up all normal except hemoglobin 9.20

A. blood transfusion
B. ferrous sulphate twice daily
C. IV Iron
C??
Q: 14 week pregnant all normal except hemoglobin 9.4
A-oral ferrous sulfate twice daily
B-blood transfusion
C-IV iron
D-observation maybe
Answer: A
1053. 11 y o boy with sudden abdominal pain lower right quadrant physical examination unremarkable (they said that
exactly) Urine dipstick : unremarkable Cbc : high WBC What the Most diagnostic test
A. Abdominal MRI
B. abdominal x-ray
C. abdominal ultrasound
D. Laparotomy
1054. 34-year-old woman a known case of SLE on hydroxychloroquine. She came to the clinic for routine checkup. She is
asymptomatic with unremarkable clinical examination. Urine analysis and her blood test are done. She underwent renal
biopsy, which revealed Class I (minimal change) lupus nephritis (see lab results). Which of the following is the most
appropriate initial management?
A. Reassurance
B. Pulse Steroid
C. High protein diet
D. Control of Blood pressure
1055. Female patient wants to get pregnant. TSH high, T4 normal. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Follow up
B. Give thyroxine now
C. Give thyroxine during pregnancy
D. Proceed to pregnancy without any management
1056. First time pregnant mom came for her first antenatal visit Which vaccine should she be given?
A)Tdap
B)Influenza
C)Pneumococcal
D)Meningococcal

Q: what is the most important vaccine in first antenatal visit
A) tdap
B) influnza
C) meningioccocal
D) Hbv
Answer: B
Q: Female pregnant SHE'S 28yr OLD!!!!!! (NOT 28 weeks GA), what Vaccine to give
A: influenza
B: MMR
C: DTaP
Q: A gravida 2 para 0 woman presents to the Maternal Health Clinic reporting that she has not menstruated for the past
2 months. The previous pregnancy had resulted in a stillbirth at 34 weeks’ gestation. A human chorionic gonadotropin
test is now positive. She has been trying to conceive for the past 6 months. She is afraid of having another stillbirth and
asks to be vaccinated against everything. Which of the following vaccines is most appropriate to administer?
A. Rubella
B. Measles
C. Influenza
D. Varicella
Q: Prima Gravida, 28 weeks old She attends her ante natal appointments when she was at 10 weeks. Every thing normal
(Literally everything is normal it says so in the question) whats the most appropriate choice that contributes to her
health and wellness?
A) influenza vaccine
B) Tdab vaccine
C) oral iron supplements
D) GPS prophylaxis or calcium supplements?
Q: Pregnant women on 22 or 20 weaks has no complaint came for antental care Dm gestional of hx noمو اﺪﺑا ﻲﺷ ﻦﻣ ﻲﺘﻜﺸﺗ م
ﮫﯿﻧﺎﺜﻟا هرﺎﯾﺰﻟﺎﻓ يﻮﺴﺗ ﺎﮭﺤﺼﻨﺗ حار شو
Glucose oral tolrense test
Oral iron supplement for anemia
Test for urine protien
Asprin for future preclampsia

1057. An elderly man with a known history of BPH presents to OPD with difficult urination, frequency, urgency, and a
sensation of incomplete bladder emptying. He has been treated with an alpha-blocker for the past 2 years, with
persistent symptoms. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Adjust the dose of the alpha-blocker
B. Suprapubic catheterization
C. clean Intermittent catheterization
D. Transurethral resection of the prostate
1058. patient with a history of HTN, DLP, CKD stage 3 on metformin, statin, and ACEI. He presents with SOB elevated
JVP, and bilateral lower limb edema. On physical examination, a grade 2/6 systolic murmur is heard. [ they provide
CXR pic i think it was pulmonary edema but I’m not sure] Where should this patient be referred for counselling and
further evaluation?
a) Pulmonologist for ….
b) Endocrinologist for the use of metformin in CKD
c) Nephrologist for CKD and fluid balance
d) Cardiologist for evaluation of heart failure and valvular abnormalities
1059. A patient with spinal metastasis presents with rapidly progressive paraparesis and fecal incontinence (level T
something). His symptoms continue to worsen despite medical management. What is the most appropriate initial
management?
A) Initiate chemotherapy
B) Increase steroid dose
C) Conservative management
D) Urgent surgical decompression
1060. A female patient with a history of HTN, DM, and DLP, with aFhx of cardiac disease, reports a diet high in
processed foods, red meat, and fried foods. Which of the following is the most appropriate dietary advice?
A) Reduce or increase fat intake (I don’t remember exactly)
B) High-protein diet focusing on meat
C) Continue the same diet
D) Mediterranean diet focusing on vegetables, fruits, whole grains,..
Q: Case about female who have sedintry lifestyle, high cholestrol,
bmi:29
She is afraid because of cardiovascular risk...
How to counsel her ?
A. Ketogenic diet
B. Mediterranean diet
C. High potassium
D. Salt intake less than 2 g/day

Answer: B. Mediterranean diet
1061. Patient planning to go for Hajj and wants to receive the meningococcal vaccine. When should the vaccine be
administered?
A. Now
B. 10 days before Hajj
C. Not required
D. On arrival
1062. Pts in the 4th post op day complaining of fever only what is the best next ?
A. Cbc
B. Uti culture
C. Assess surgical site
D. Review medication
It Was “Wound Exploration” , Not “Wound Assessment”
1063. Patient in his/her 20s in PE murmur increased with standing and diminished with handgrip. Which of the
following is the most likely diagnosis?
A) Mitral Valve Prolapse
B) Ischemic Mitral Regurgitation
C) Functional Mitral Regurgitation
D) Rheumatic Mitral Regurgitation
1064. Recently married Woman come to ER with sudden sharp left iliac fossa pain associated with nausea and vomiting.
There was mild vaginal pain. Abdomen was soft with mild left iliac fossa tenderness on deep palpation. BHCG was high
( I don’t remember the exact number) Abdominal ultrasound showed no intrauterine or extrauterine fetal sac, no fluid
in the cul de sac . What is the diagnosis?
A. Missed miscarriage
B. Ovarian ectopic pregnancy
C. Complete abortion
D. Pregnancy of unknown location
1065. A young woman has been seeking fertility for the last 3 years. She had 2 unsuccessful in vitro fertilization trials.
Pelvic Ultrasound: Multiple uterine fibroids of variable sizes. Which of the following will most likely increase her chance
of reaching a successful pregnancy )not sure if it’s written like this(?

A. Myomectomy
B. Uterine artery embolization
C. Continuous progesterone regimen
D. GnRH injection to reduce the size of the fibroids
1066. As a doctor, you should respect patient autonomy. Which of the following is an example of respecting autonomy?
A) Covering patient bodies
B) Protecting patient information
C) Treating patients equally and fairly
D) Obtaining patient informed consent
1067. child 5 yrs presented w. Hx. Of pneumonia and treat as outpatient with oral abx. Then he came to ER with
worsening of his condition , O2% 85, he is drowsy , has moderate - severe respiratory distress (written like this) what is
next ?
A. invasive ventilation
B. High flow o2
C. Noninvasive ventilation
D. Oxygen via non breather mask
Q: Child was diagnosed with pneumonia and given treatment. Presented to the ER 3 no improvement . Oxygen
saturation It's either 85 or 88 % with oxygen mask. She appears drowsy, confused. So, What to do?
A- Non-invasive ventilation
B- Invasive ventilation
1068. In a village, there are usually about 10 cases of gastroenteritis per week. Suddenly, the number of cases increased
significantly, and all affected individuals ate at the same restaurant (not sure). What is the most appropriate health
response?
A) Close the restaurant immediately without investigation
B) Wait for more cases before starting an investigation
C) Start an outbreak investigation
ﻢﻌﻄﻤﻟا ﻦﻣ ﻢﻤﺴﺗ ﮫﻧا ﮫﻘﻟﺎﻋ ﺎﮭﻟﺎﻣ ﮫﯾدﺎﻋ ﺖﻟاﺎﺣ ﮫﻧا ﻰﻨﻌﻤﺑ ﺲﺑ ﻂﺒﻀﻟﺎﺑ رﺎﯿﺨﻟا ﺮﻛذا ﺎﻣ else something to related it Consider) D
1069. Patient presents with a warm, erythematous swelling of the thigh with indistinct borders, accompanied by
lymphangitis, and regional lymphadenopathy. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Necrotizing fasciitis
B. Folliculitis
C. Cellulitis
D. Impetigo

1070. Pt post renal transplant presented with gum hypertrophy (gingival hyperplasia). What is the cause?
A- Vit D
B- Cyclosporin A
C- Pantoprazole
1071.
1072.

1073.

1074.A child presents with symptoms suggestive of bronchial asthma, with episodes that worsen during upper
respiratory tract infections. At this visit, the chest X-ray is normal. Which Of The Following Indicates Diagnosis Of
Asthma?
A. Bronchial asthma increases the risk of upper respiratory tract infections.
B. Polyphonic wheeze occurs on exertion (not exercise)
C. Between attacks, the chest X-ray is normal.
1075.
1076.

1077. A 78-year-old woman presents with exertional syncope. On clinical examination, she has a slow rising carotid pulse
and a loud ejection systolic murmur at the upper right sternal edge, radiating to the carotids. Which of the following is
the most likely cause of these findings?
A. Mitral stenosis
B. Aortic stenosis
C. Mitral valve prolapse
D. Tricuspid regurgitation
1078. A neonate presents with prolonged bleeding after venipuncture and hepatosplenomegaly. The mother has a history
of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) Laboratory results show thrombocytopenia with normal PT and PTT What is
the next step in management?
A. Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and corticosteroids
B. Platelet transfusion and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG)
1079. pregnant g3 p2 at 38w admitted to L&D with controlled hypertension(160 systolic) on medication Baby is 8th%
Asking about intrapartum monitoring
A) Maternal vitals monitoring
B) Intermittent fetal heart monitoring
C) Continuous fetal cardiotocography as a high risk pregnancy
D) early identification for labor complications

1080.
1081.
1082.
1083.

1084.
1085.
1086.

1087. question about food poisoning of 13 doctors out of the 50 staff at the hospital, after investigation we found that
they all ate at the hospital restaurant. so what is the first step in this outbreak?
A. close the restaurant and do health reassessment or something like this
B. check what did the infected eat?
1088. Female pregnant at 28 experienced vaginal discharge and cramps «she has a history of pregnancy loss or preterm
labor I don’t remember exactly » and the doctor considered about this pregnancy, what is the best to do for good
outcome ?
A. Exercise for strength muscle
B. Go and monitor herself and came in if she is in pain or in severe pain
C. give her progesterone as indicated
1089. 9.saudi girl or family not sure came to clinic, want to travel to kenya, her routine vaccination is up to date, what
vaccine should be given?
A. Malaria
B. meningococcal
C. no need, her routine vac is enough
1090. 9.saudi girl or family not sure came to clinic, want to travel to kenya, her routine vaccination is up to date, what
vaccine should be given?
A. Malaria
B. meningococcal
C. no need, her routine vac is enough
D. Yellow Fever

1091. Young lady (27y i think) newly married presented to the ER with sever RLQ abdominal pain associated with
vaginal spotting blood. No fever or nausea or vomiting (100% sure there’s no fever but not sure if there N&V or no) on
EXAMINATION there is RLQ tenderness. What is the preliminary appropriate test/tests ( ?)ﮫﯿﻓ ﮫﻤﻠﻛ ﺎﻨھ ﺎﮭﺘﯿﺴﻧ
A- ULTRASOUND
B
C- cbc, pregnancy test and urine analysis
D- cbc, renal function test
1092. 7 year-old patient presents with chronic diarrhea. Colonoscopy shows skip lesions with inflammation involving the
terminal ileum. What to give
A. Smth nutrition
B. Systemic steroids
C. MTX
1093. A 40-year-old man with paraplegia following road traffic accident one year ago is brought to the Emergency
Department because of sudden onset dyspnea and chest pain. On examination, he is in severe distress and cyanosed. He
has left parasternal heave and loud P2. Chest is clear to auscultation (see lab results and reports). Blood pressure 80/55
mmHg Heart rate 110/min Respiratory rate 30/min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 86 % Test Result Normal
Values ABG HCO3- 22 22-28 mmol/L ABG PCO2 4.2 4.7-6.0 kPa pH 7.4 7.36-7.45 ABG PO2 8.6 10.6-14.2 kPa
Echocardiogram: Dilated right ventricle with pulmonary artery pressure of 55 mmHg. Venous Doppler: Confirmed
DVT in the left leg extending to the thigh. Which of the following is the best line of management?
A. Insertion of vena-caval filter
B. Alteplase infusion
C. Enoxaparin
D. Warfarin
1094. Research for a group of cardiac patients: half will receive a new drug, and half will receive a placebo. Which of the
following is correct for the patients?
A- Withdrawal at any time
B- Explaining and knowing the research instruments
C- Explaining the results of the procedure
D- Knowing if they receive the drug or the placebo
1095. A 62-year-old patient with a known case of chronic hepatitis C presented with abdominal pain and swelling.
Examination showed ascites, abdominal tenderness and peripheral edema. Diagnostic ascitic tap done and revealed a
neutrophil count of 400/mm (<250 mm) Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 90 /min Temperature 37.6 °C Which of
the following is the appropriate next step in the management?
A. Fluid restriction.
B. Oral spironolactone.
C. Intravenous antibiotics.
D. Therapeutic paracentesis

1096. A 20 week pregnancy came to antenatal care , she doesn't have any Complaint medically free and no family history
of GDM What is the most appropriate ?
A- Perform 24 hr urine protein test
B- Early scan of gestational diabetes
C- Give low dose aspirin to prevent preeclampsia
D- Give iron supplements to prevent anemia
1097. Women had a wound from the garden and the nurse found that the pt had tetanus vaccine 12 years ago. What to
do ?
A- give tetanus shot
B- give booster dose of Tdap
1098. 28-year-old woman with active neuropsychiatric lupus based on clinical manifestations and her workups. Which of
the following is the most appropriate first-line therapy? -
A. Corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide
B. Intravenous cyclophosphamide
C. Corticosteroids and rituximab
D. Intravenous corticosteroid
1099. 50 yr female c/o menorrhagia for one year, medical management has failed. US shows a fibroid 7x7 cm Most
appropriate management:
A- hysterectomy
B- uterine artery embolization
C- Hormonal IUD
D. Oral progesterone
Q: A 50-year-old woman presents with menorrhagia for the last year. The physical examination is unremarkable. A trial
of medical treatment failed to control the bleeding for the last few months. Ultrasound: Presence of a fibroid, 7 x 7 cm in
size, which is distorting the endometrial lining. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Endometrial ablation
C. Uterine artery embolization
D. Hormonal intrauterine contraceptive device
Answer: A
1100. 33-year-old single woman was found to have a uterine fibroid incidentally on pelvic ultrasound. Ultrasound:
Subserosal uterine fibroid measuring 5x5 cm. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Conservative
B. Myomectomy

C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Uterine artery embolization
1101. Pediatric with cystic fibrosis his mother concern about recurrent URTI 6-7 cold / year Despite using pulmonary
clearance she is afraid of another infection (in quetion they mention somthing about school) and ask how council the
Parents
A. Influenza vaccine
B. Increase frequency of clearance
C. Avoid group activity
D. Prophylactic antibiotic
1102. teenager, poor diet and sedentary lifestyle presents for evaluation. Her mother have DM Bp: 138/80 Bmi: 29 (not
sure) Which of the following factors poses the highest risk to her health?
A) Family history of diabetes and high BMI
B) Sedentary lifestyle and poor dietary habits
C) elevated blood pressure
1103. 55-year-old obese non-smoker man with hypertension presents with exertional dyspnea for 2 years. His wife stated
that he is uncomfortable while sleeping at night and produces loud snores. Examination revealed central cyanosis,
suffused conjunctivae and clear chest. BMI 40 kg/m2 Which of the following has the highest diagnostic value?
A. Spirometry
B. Spiral CT chest
C. Polysomnography
D. Methacholine challenge test
1104. A 43-year-old man who is known to have chronic hepatitis B presents to the clinic for evaluation. He is
asymptomatic with normal physical examination (see lab results and report). Which of the following is the most
appropriate treatment option?
Test Result Normal Values RBC 5 4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female) Hb 11.9 130-170 g/L. (Male) 120-160
g/L (Female) Platelets count 145 150-400 x 109/L WBC 3.9 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Direct bilirubin 17 1.5-6.5 mol/L Total
bilirubin 21 3.5-16.5 mol/L Aspartate aminotransferase 89 12-40 IU/L Alanine aminotransferase 61 5-40 IU/L Alkaline
phosphatase 160 39-117 IU/L
US Abdomen: Showed mild coarse liver echotexture.
A. Entecavir
B. Observation
C. Lamivudine
D. Pegylated Interferon

1105. A 35-year-old woman presents with severe generalized abdominal pain, associated with nausea and vomiting for
the last few hours. She is known to have an intrauterine contraceptive device inserted for the last 3 years. She did a
home pregnancy test, which was positive. Ultrasound: Fluid collection of approximately 13 x 15 cm. No identified
gestational sac. Both ovaries are normal. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Ruptured corpus luteum
B. Intact ectopic pregnancy
C. Ruptured ectopic pregnancy
D. Early intrauterine pregnancy
1106. A 30 yo female with a family hx of breast cancer in her mother when she was 45yo, she is requesting BRACA
screening, did breast examination was normal. What to write on the consent?
A- discontinue the consoling as she has no symptoms
B- tell her the test will prevent future risk of ca
C-discuss emotional impact of positive test
D-tell her the test useless at her age
1107. A 31-weeks pregnant woman presents with ROM the fluid is clear Nitrazine test is positive, CTG is reassuring
What is the most preventive measure ( i am not sure ) ?
A. Administer tocolytics to prolong pregnancy
B. Induce labor to prevent infection
C. Give antibiotic prophylaxis and corticosteroid
1108. A 28-year-old G1 P0 woman presented to the Emergency Room at 30 weeks gestation with abdominal pain with no
leaking or bleeding. The CTG shows a normal heart rate with regular contractions 4 in 10 minutes. She was admitted
with preterm labor, as her cervix was 2 cm dilated and 80% effaced. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Inform NICU and anticipate delivery
B. Dexamethasone and anticipate delivery
C. Dexamethasone, nifedipine, GBS prophylaxis
D. This is a threatened preterm labor, so observation
1109. 3-month-old infant with noisy breath since birth change with positioning tends to disappear in prone position and
become more obvious with supine position. Examination and growth parameter are normal. Which of the following is
the most likely diagnosis?
A. Nasal atresia
B. Laryngomalacia
C. Subglottic stenosis

D. Vocal cord paralysis
1110. 70-year-old man heavy smoker, presents with left sided chest pain and hemoptysis. On examination, he has lost the
angle of finger nail ( I don’t remember the rest ) Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 85 /min Respiratory rate 22
/min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 92 % Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. COPD
B. Bronchiectasis
C. Pulmonary embolism
D. Bronchogenic carcinoma
1111. A 35-year-old G9 P6026 at 8 weeks' gestation presents to the hospital with vaginal spotting associated with very
mild lower abdominal pain. She has noticed some dark brown clots. Examination reveals she is comfortable in bed with
no abdominal Transvaginal ultrasound: 5-week gestational size with no fetal heart. tenderness appreciated. Pelvic
examination reveals minimal dark-red clots in the introitus and cervical os closed Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step of management plan?
A. Suction curettage
B. Prostaglandin E2
C. Expectant management
D. Abortifacient agent with antibiotic
Q: A 40-year-old G9 P6026 at 9 weeks' gestation presents with vaginal spotting and mild abdominal pain. Ultrasound
shows a 5-week gestational size and no fetal heart detected.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Misoprostol
B. Mifepristone
C. Dilatation and curettage
D. Conservative management
1112. What is the maternal risk factor for post term delivery .
A. anesthesia
B. blood transfusion
C. placenta cover the os
D. C section
1113. Delivered baby delayed placental for 30min What's the most appropriate
A. misoprostol
B. carbapost

C. Oxytocin
1114. A 4-year-old child was recently diagnosed with Kawasaki disease and started on appropriate treatment. The
parents are counseled regarding warning signs that require urgent medical attention. Which of the following symptoms?
A. Intermittent facial flushing
B. Severe abdominal pain with steaks of blood in stool
C. Palpable rash on the extremities
D. Mild joint pain that improves with rest
1115. A 35-year-old man with rheumatoid arthritis for 6 months on methotrexate 20 mg weekly and ibuprofen daily
presented to the clinic with increasing joint pain in both hands and feet associated with morning stiffness for 2-hours.
On examination, he shows signs of active arthritis at both wrists. Hand X-rays show erosions at multiple joints (see lab
results). Which of the following is the most appropriate additional treatment?
Test Result Normal Values Hb 120 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count 450 150-400 × 109/L WBC 8
4.5-10.5 × 109/L ESR 60 2-10 mm/h (Male) 3-15 mm/h (Female) C-reactive peptide 18 <8.2 mg/L Rheumatoid factor 500
<58 klU/L
A. Adalimumab
B. Azathioprine
C. Cyclophosphamide
D. Hydroxychloroquine
1116. Patient underwent bone marrow transplantation due to SCD, developed febrile neutropenia , she was given
Ceftazidime and shows no improvement After 72 Hours, what to add? (No Pneumonia , No Hypotension , No Central
Line , No Skin/Mucus Ulcerations)
A- Vancomycin
B- Tazocin
C- Ceftriaxone
D- Amphotericin B
Q: post chemo therapy , 7 days of fever and neutropenia, Choice
of treatment?
- IV ampho.. ( anti-fungal)
- Vancomycin
- Azithromycin
- Ciprofloxacin
Answer: A

1117. A young man was brought to the Emergency Department after he was hit in the chest while playing football. On
examination, he was dyspneic and drowsy with GCS 11/15. Tracheal shifting to the left and raised JVP were noted. He
has barely audible breath sounds on the right side. Blood pressure 80/50 mmHg Heart rate 130 /min Respiratory rate 32
/min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 90% Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Flail segment
B. Cardiac tamponade
C. Pulmonary contusions
D. Tension Pneumothorax
Q: Patient MVA came with distended neck vein , Trachea shifted to the other side , absent sound , hyperresonance on
perccusion , BP was
80/60 , Dx ?
A- Cardiac tamponade
B- Massive hemithorax
C- Tension pneumothorax
1118.
1119. Which vaccine is contraindicated in pregnancy?

A. Whooping cough
B. Flu
C. HPV
D. Covid
1120. Which vaccine is contraindicated in pregnancy?
A. Whooping cough
B. Flu
C. HPV
D. VSV
Q: A 24 years old newly married , came to preconception visit, which of the following vaccines are contraindicated
during pregnancy?
A. Flu vaccine
B. Covid
C. Whooping
D. HPV
1121. 50 yo smoker one pack a day for 20 Years , he was hypertensive, physical exam unremarkable. Labs are normal
except : LDL 8.7 BMI 21 For this patient What can help reduce the risk for cardiovascular disease?
A. Reduce smoking consumption gradually to promote cardiac health
B. Start low intensity cholesterol lowering agent
C. give bupropion
D. wait until cardiac symptoms manifest
No High Intensity Statins
1122. 40 years old male, Came to ER with one day history of left leg area swelling and pain. He mentioned history of
insect bite. On examination there is erythema, pain and tenderness with irregular borders He was febrile 38.4 What is
the initial step in management?
A- Doppler US
B- Warm compressions and observe
C- CBC
D- Empirical antibiotic

1123. 50 something year old complaining of recurring chest pain mainly at night came to ER with acute episode of chest
pain ecg showed st elevation in inferior leads that subside with sublingual nitrate coronary angiogram: no sclerotic
changes what is the most app treatment long term
A. long acting ccb
B. aspirin and bb
C. aspirin and high dose statin
1124. A 14 months old came with a large abdominal mass without pain X-ray showing calcification Which test
"suggests" the diagnosis?
A. LFT
B. Renal function
C. alpha fetoprotein
D. Urine catecholamine metabolites
1125. Patient presented with tearing chest pain radiating to the back and a blood pressure of 220/100. Investigation
confirmed the diagnosis of aortic dissection. Which of the following is the best next treatment?
A) IV Nitroprusside
B) IV Esmolol
C) Urgent surgical referral
D) Oral Amlodipine
1126. A 69-year-old man is evaluated during a routine examination. He reports his blood pressure to be around 150/84
mmHg on several occasions. He is known to have mild benign prostatic hyperplasia, and hyperlipidemia for which he is
taking simvasta(cid:0) n. Cardiac examination is normal, and the remainder of the physical examination is unremarkable.
Laboratory studies show a normal chemistry panel; a urine dipstick demonstrates no blood or protein. An
electrocardiogram shows no evidence of letiventricular hypertrophy Blood pressure 147/86 mmHg Heart rate 80 /min
Respiratory rate 14 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 95 % BMI 31 kg/m2 Which of the following is the
most appropriate next step in management?
A. Repeat blood pressure determination in 4 months
B. Lifestyle modifications and weight loss
C. Start Amlodipine
D. Start B-blockers
1127. 68 woman with HTN (no medication) DM, Dyslipidemia came after transiet slurred speech for 30 minutes and
resolved. no weakness no dyarthria or ataxia (written exactly like this) Her vitals: 160/80 the rest are normal (RR,HR,
O2) What is the most appropriate management?
A. lasix
B. Amlodipine

C. metoprolol
D. ACEI
1128. 30 something female Medically free complained of fever, arthralgia, oral ulcer and skin rash for 1 week. P/E skin
eruption over the face and trunk. Immunology? Testing is ordered (No details about the type of rash or if the ulcer is
painful, the q is mainly written like this) Many labs but the ones I remember are
erythrocytes 30 and protein positive, ESR is high, no mention of ANA or anti Ds DNA What is the diagnosis ?
A. IgA vasculitis
B. SLE
C. Behcet
D. Granulomatosis polyangitis
1129. Pancystolic murmur at the abex radiates to the axilla (ecg provided) what the Dx
A. MR
B. MS
C. AR
D. AS
1130. A pregnant woman with a history of complications in her previous pregnancies presents to your hospital with
vaginal bleeding and is diagnosed with placenta previa. However, the hospital does not have adequate facilities to
manage her condition. What is the most appropriate action?
A. Discharge her and provide a referral letter to a higher-level center.
B. Obtain her agreement for transfer to a higher-level center.
C. Tell her to go to a higher-level center on her own.
D. I don’t recall
1131.

1132. A patient presents after a small wooden object entered his eye. He complains of severe eye pain, inability to open
the eye, and photophobia. An eye examination was performed using fluorescein staining, which showed an epithelial
injury or tear something like that What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Corneal ulcer
B. Corneal abrasion
C. Subconjunctival hemorrhage
D. Acute conjunctivitis
Q: Patient while he was cutting woods and feel something in his eye then present with tearing, photosensetivity, cannot
close tge eye, normal visual acuity fluorescein test there is linear epithelial lesion what the diagnosis?
A. corneal abrasion
B. corneal ulcer
1133. A case of female patient had severe pain before and during her menstrual cycle Which made her absent few days
and that’s made her boss unhappy :) What to give her?
A paracetamol
B. Misoprostol
1134. Young woman with severe abdominal pain one day before menses and two days after which stops her from going to
work and boss is not happy about it!
A. Acetaminophen
B. ocp
C. pop
Q: Case about severe dysmenorrhea that started one day before menstrual cycle and continue for

up to 3 days, it prevents the patients from attending work and her boss is not happy with her.
Asking about management?
A. Paracetamol
B. ОСР
(No mention for NSAIDs)
1135. 64yo male with persistent a-fib, he also has HTN and DM, with no contraindications to antithrombotic therapy,
what is the best medication for his case?
A -aspirin and clopidogrel
B -aspirin
C -clopidogrel
D -warfarin
1136. 23-year-old female has a height of 157 cm and a weight of 87 kg. What is her Body Mass Index (BMI)? Height =
1.57 m Weight = 87 kg
A. 25
B. 30
C. 35
D. 40
1137. 14yr old boy came for check up and has family hx of sudden death in (?uncle? at age of 40) ECG: Q T
prolongation Echo: normal What to advise?
A-physical activity and annual ecg
B- restrict physical activity and beta blocker
Ans: β-blocker + no strenuous sports
1138. 30 year old 9week pregnant came with mild vaginal bleeding and mild abdominal pain Cervix open B HCG: 3000
US: no intrauterine or extrauterine product of conception Whats most apropriate management?
A- Methotrexate injection
B-Salpingectomy
C-Salpingostomy
D-D&C

Q: A 33-year-old woman presents at 9 weeks of gestation with mild vaginal bleeding. Examination of her abdomen
reveals mild tenderness without rigidity or rebound tenderness. Pelvic examination reveals a closed cervix (see lab result
and report). Ultrasound: Does not reveal any intrauterine or extrauterine pregnancy. Which of the following is the most
appropriate management?
A. Salpingotomy
B. Salpingectomy
C. Methotrexate injection
D. Evacuation and curettage
1139. A 25-year-old woman presented with episodic abdominal pain and altered bowel habits that have been present
intermittently for the past year. The pain is "crampy." and moderate to severe. Defecation brings some relief, but she
sometimes must pass several loose, watery stools before the pain resolves. She occasionally notes mucus in her stool and
sometimes feels that evacuation is incomplete even though she is unable to pass more stool. Her body weight is stable.
Abdominal examination are normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate test to establish diagnosis?
A. Helicobacter pylori test
B. Celiac disease testing
C. Thyroid function test
D. CT abdomen
1140. Newborn comes to follow up clinic, you notice that there is a single testis in the scrotum, and the other is in the
inguinal canal small in size, but can be pushed down to the scrotum. Manually What is the diagnosis?
A) undescended testis
B) Retractile testis
1141. Case about patient with MI undergoing operation with fluoroscopy and X-Ray used the radiologist noticed the
doctors forgot to take the protective measures. What to do?
A. Stop the procedure to wear it then go back
B. Ask the main surgeon to go wear it and comeback

C. Anyone less than 1 meter from the radiation source should wear shield
1142. Neonate with TSH 60 (normal <10) has no symptoms normal appearance, ( no history about mother) What to do?
A-immediately give thyroxine
B-assess after one month
C-do thyroid ultrasound
1143. 2y old came late to her milestone bowing of the leg widned wrist nutritionتﺮﺘﺧا لا ﺺﻘﻧ ﺐﺒﺴﺑ ﮫﻧا ﺎﻨﻟ لﻮﻘﺗ ﻲﻟا ﮫﺠﯿﺘﻨﻟا شو
Low calcium low phosphate low 25-hydroxycholecalciferol high alkaline phosphatase
In case of infant can not walk upon exam. Bowed legs
What most likely findings:
A. Normal calcium, low phosphorus
B. Low calcium, low phosphorus, high, low 25 hydroxy calciferol ( i think like this)
C. Low calcium , low alkaline phosphate
Full recall: A 2-year-old boy is brought by his parents who noticed that he refuses to walk and is unable to bear weight. On
examination, bowing of both legs is noted. Which of the following best describes the expected laboratory findings?
A. High calcium, high phosphate, low ALP, normal Vitamin D
B. Low calcium, low phosphate, high ALP, low Vitamin D
C. High calcium, high phosphate, high ALP, low Vitamin D
D. Low calcium, normal phosphate, normal ALP, low Vitamin D
1144. 38w vaginal delivery after 30 min placenta still not delivered how to manage
A. ORAL misoprostol
B. IV oxytocin
C. IM carboprosrt
D. Im ergometrine
1145. 3 m baby presented with cough and nasal congestion low oral intake Bilateral wheeze Tachypnic but alert O2 89%
A- high flow nasal o2 with iv fluid
B- iv antibiotic with xray to rule out pneumonia
C- salbutamol via spacer than reassess
D- low oxygen , frequent nasal suctioning , facilitate prober feeding

Q: infant presents with a 3 day history of nasal congestion cough and poor feeding , On examination the infant is alert
and conscious but has tachypnea and nasal flaring. ( he was in resp distress) Oxygen saturation is 89% Auscultation
reveals bilateral crackles and wheezing What is the most appropriate initial management ?
A- Empirical antibiotics and chest Xray to rule out pneumonia
B- High-flow oxygen and supplemental nutrition (I don’t remember if it written NGT or not )
C- Low-flow oxygen and IV fluids , and suction
Q:
1146. A patient with a history of hypertension and dyslipidemia presents with a 4-hour history of slurred speech. What is
the target of LDL level?
A- Less than 2
B- Less than 2.2
C- Less than 2.5
D- Less than 3
1147. pregnant i think 30w heart failure ef 30 how to manage main complain dyspnea Calss ll NYHA
A. Losartan
B. Lisinopril
C. Methyldopa
D. Hydralazine
1148. Cystic fibrosis complain of weight 3rd centile Inability to gain weight Foul smelling stool What health promotion
you can offer
A- give pancreatic enzyme

B high fiber diet
C low fat diet
D multivitamin
1149. Child presented with eye dropping , Difficulty chewing tired by night What to do next
Nerve conduction
Muscle biopsy
Acetylcholine receptor antibody
Forgot viral testing maybe?
Q: 10 years child with drooling, ptosis dysartheria at evening only, he is normal in the morning, neurological exam
revealed exuasting ptosis and mild dysartheria Which is a test to confirm?
A-Muscle biopsy
B-Nerve conduction Study
C-Serum CK
D-Acetylcholine anti-body test
1150.
1151. To gather all data from multiples researchers and put them in 1 table to form a conclusion
A-Sr
B-Ma
??
1152. Lesser sac 9 cm cyst posterior to the stomach
A - colon neoplasm

B- stomach neoplasm
C - pancreatic neoplasm
D - pancreatic pseudocyst
1153. 6 or 7 years old child fell and subsequently became drowsy, nauseated, and started vomiting. GCS is decreased but
not ≤8 (I don't remember exactly) CT scan shows a crescent shaped intracranial bleeding. What is the best
management?
A- Intubate and secure the airway
B- Hematoma evacuation
C- Reassurance
D- MRI "not sure“
1154. A diabetic patient presented for follow up the doctor used his personal laptop to update the patients electronic
medical record with treatment and investigation results his laptop has password but not encrypted. What is wrong or
what can happen
A) i forgot
B) the laptop can be stolen and the confidentiality be breached
C) the doctor might forget to sync the data to the clinic system
D) the information might not be accessed next time
ﺶﯾا لاﺆﺴﻟا .ﺖﻗﻮﻟا ﺮﺼﺘﺨﯿﺑ نﺎﺸﻋ ﮫﻟاﻮﺟ ﻰﻠﻋ ﺾﯾﺮﻤﻟا تﺎﻣﻮﻠﻌﻣ ﻞﺠﺴﯾ نﺎﻛ رﻮﺘﻛﺪﻟاو يﺮﺘﻜﯾﺎﺳ ﺾﯾﺮﻣ ﮫﯿﻓ هﺮﻛذ ﺪﺣا ﺖﻔﺷﺎﻣ ﺲﺑ ﺮﯿﺜﻛ رﺮﻜﺗ لاﺆﺳ ﮫﯿﻓ .1155
نﺎﻛ اﺬﻛ هﻮﯾا " ﻰﻔﺸﺘﺴﻤﻟا زﺎﮭﺟ يز ﺺﺋﺎﺼﺧ ﮫﯿﻓﺎﻣ رﻮﺘﻛﺪﻟا لاﻮﺟ ٢ .رﻮﺘﻛﺪﻟا لاﻮﺠﺑ ﮫﺗﺎﻣﻮﻠﻌﻣ نا فﺮﻋ ﻮﻟ ﻞﻋﺰﯾ حار ﺾﯾﺮﻤﻟا ١ ؟ رﻮﺘﻛﺪﻟا ﮫﺒﻜﺗرا ﻲﻠﻟا ﻂﻠﻐﻟا
ﺾﯾﺮﻤﻟا ﺔﯾﺮﺳ ﺮﺴﻜﯾو ﻊﯿﻀﯾ ﻦﻜﻤﯾ رﻮﺘﻛﺪﻟا لاﻮﺟ ٣ " ﮫﺘﻤﺟﺮﺗ
C
1156. asthmatic woman during labour experienced bleeding that did not stop with oxytocin and manual massage what is
the appropriate management?
A- im carboprost
B- im Methylergonovine
C- ballon tamponade
D- 100%
1157. Copd patient came with symptoms of pneumonia and the stem asked about most appropriate initial investigation
for him ?
A. blood gas
B. chest x ray
C. blood or urine culture

1158. Young lady , recently get married, present to the ER with sudden RLQ pain for (1 day ? Not sure) , vomiting 3
times , abdominal tenderness especially in RIQ No wbc in the Q There was another test result but I forget what it was …
Next step ?
A- Pelvic US
B- Abdominal CT
C- Diagnostic laparoscopy
D- I don’t remember but maybe colonoscopy
1159. Child with seizures
Anti ds DNA high
ANA normal
What to give ?
A Hydroxychloroquine
B Cyclophosphamide
C Mycophenolate mofetil
D Corticosteroids
1160. A female on warfarin presents with bloody stool, is pale, hypotensive, and has cool extremities. Her lab results show:
Hb = 6 g/dL
PT and PTT prolonged
BP = 90/65
What is the initial step in fluid management?
Options:
A) Ringer’s Lactate (RL)
B) Prothrombin Complex Concentrate (PCC)
C) Normal saline
D) Packed RBC
1161. 76-year-old man, known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, presented to the clinic with
exertional shortness of breath for 1 year. He has to
slow down his walk and stop after 10 meters. He denied any history of syncope, chest pain, or palpitation. Precordium examination
revealed a forceful apex beat and a crescendo- decrescendo ejection systolic murmur radiating to the carotid. Which of the following
is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Mitral stenosis
B. Aortic stenosis

C. Pulmonary stenosis
D. Aortic regurgitation
1162.
endometriosis
1163. A 9-year-old boy is brought to the clinic for pallor and easy fatigability since early childhood.
He has no history of bleeding.
On examination: mild splenomegaly.
CBC: Hb = 8 g/dL
MCV = 62 fL
RBC count = normal to high
Peripheral blood smear shows numerous target cells.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Iron deficiency anemia
B. Anemia of chronic disease
C. Sideroblastic anemia
D. Beta thalassemia
1164. A 25 years old male presented with progressive SOB and wheezing. On auscultation:
wheezy chest, no crackles.
History of previous hospitalization and intubation last year.
Was given systemic steroids but no benefit which of the following is the
most appropriate rescue (something like that) drug
A. IV SABA

B. Inhaled budesonide
C. IV Epinephrine
D. IV MgSo
1165. What is the percentage prevalence of smoking among Saudi adult men ??
A. 21
1166. A 23-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department after he fell down from 3 m height on his
right leg. Examination revealed a deformity of the leg with an open wound in the mid-leg and
devitalized tissue and dirt in the wound. The leg was put in a splint
Blood pressure 11270 mmhg
Hean rate 99 /min
Respiratory rate 22 /min
Oxygen saturation 95 %
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A-Antibiotics
B-External fixator
C-Surgical debridement
D-Urgent internal fixation
1167. Foul smelling watery diarrhea, green in color, what is
the causative organism?
A- shigella
B- salmonella
C- Rota
D- Adenovirus
1168. A critically ill patient is admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). The medical team is
considering a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) order for the patient.
Which of the following statements is true about DNR orders?
A) DNR orders should be taken by 3 worthy doctors
B) DNR orders should be discussed with the patient
C) DNR orders should be discussed with the patient's family

D) DR orders should be discussed with hospital administrators
1169. Case of HELLP syndrome
1170. Vaccines 2 & 9 months
Q: Baby 9 month never been vaccinated what vaccines you will give :
A. BCG , HBV
B) BCG, PCV, Measles, Hep B
C) DTaP-1, OPV-1, Measles, MCV4
D) BCG Hep B OPV-1 Dtap-1 Measles
1171. Middle age pt with migraine headaches
Ask about medication
What medication is used for acute attacks ??
- Triptans
- NSAIDs
- SSRIs
1172. A 22 year old woman presented to the clinic with 2 months history of polyarthralgia, skin rash, mucosal
ulcers and Fatigue. Her clinical examinations revealed malar rash over her face and active arthritis at several
joints.
Hb 100 (120-160 g/L female)
Platelets count 100 (150-400) ×109/L
WBC 3 (4.5-10.5 ×109/L)
ESR 35 (2-10 mm/h female)
Lupus anticoagulant positive
Urea 5 (2.75-7.4 mmol/L)
Creatinine 78 (44-115 umol/L)
C-reactive peptide 5 (<8.2 mg/L)
Complement C3 0.3 (0.7-1.5 g/L)
Complement C4 0.13 (0.15-0.45 g/L
Which of the following test obtained at this visit is most likely to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Anti-Ro (SSA) antibodies
B. Antinuclear antibodies (ANA)
C. Anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-DNA)

D. Anti-ribonucleoprotein (RNP) antibodies
1173. Calculate SBP (equation provided) + only add in BMI - answer 130
1174. 5 year Pedia patient comes with fever 37.9 for 6 weeks associated with joint pain with salmon color
rash especially trunk and hepatomegaly and bilateral wrist swelling
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Kawasaki disease
B - missed
C missed
D systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis
1175. A 10-year-old boy presents to the clinic complaining of abdominal pain, frequent diarrhoea that is sometimes bloody, and pain
usually accompanying defecation. His mother observed that he has lost weight over the last 3 months since the onset of the problem.
The boy also has aches and pains of his joints. On examination, he looks ill, pale, with a sol abdomen, no tenderness or organomegaly
(see lab results).
Blood pressure 110/70 mm Heart rate 100/min Respiratory rate 16/min
Temperature 38.6° C Test Result Normal Values Sodium 132 134-146 mmol/L
Potassium 3.2 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Creatinine 31 27-62 mol/L Blood urea nitrogen 5.6 1.8
to 6.4 mmol/L H6 82 112-165 g/L C-reac7ve pep7de 1.1 0-0.5 mg/di Albumin 32
36-52 g/L Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
• Celiac disease
• Crohn's disease
**C. Ulcerative colitis
D. Chronic dysentery
1176. abdominal pain after meals no medical surgical or family history
Next step in investigation:
A. H. Pylori
B. Upper endoscopy
C. Barium esophegeagram
D. Abdominal CT
1177. A patient with diabetes presents with swelling of the big toe and warmth and tenderness of the calf
for 4 days. There is a 2-cm ulcer over the first metatarsal area. No discharge is noted. Distal pulses are
intact. What is the most appropriate initial investigation?
A. Duplex ultrasound

B. Conventional angiography
C. Abi
D. CT with contrast
1178. Child with poor dentition, enamel hypoplasia, low calcium, low phosphate, high alkaline phosphatase.
What is the most appropriate management?
A) Intravenous calcium gluconate
B) Vitamin D3 and calcium supplementation
1179. Surgeon want to perform thrombolectomy, what the important thing to be assure of
A -Confirm no recent stroke in patient history
1180. male elderly with diabetes, on follow up not adhere to medx bc he is not believing in medx what to do?
A- explain diabetes and lifestyle by simple visual diagrams
B- give him pamphlet
1181. Female patient with a strong family history of breast cancer undergoes BRCA screening. Her employer
requests the results, as a physician, what do you do?
A. Tell the patient to send a request to the ethics committee
B. Refuse
C. Tell the patient to give it to the employer if it's positive
D. Tell the employer to contact the ethics committee
1182. Newborn didn’t pass meconium for 48h when examining the rectum it exploded with temporarily relieve
of the symptoms. What is the diagnosis?
A. Hirschisprung disease
B. Functional constipation
1183. A 7 y/o child presented with sudden lower abdominal pain (case of testicular torsion). What is an
important step in management?
A. Examination of Genitalia
1184. 15 years old, no menstruation, phenotypical female and BMI less than 5th percentile, what improves her
condition?
A. body fat
B. exercise

C. vitamins
D. sleep hygiene
Q: 14 yo with lasting of her menarche, she is about to be less than 5th centile of her wight, which one of the following the highly
contributing factor:
A. Body fat
B. Sleep hygiene
C. Multivitamins
1185. Elderly called emergency dispatch (EMD) and have chest pain radiating to the shoulder and patient
told you his name and address and his previous medical history which was HTN and previous MI
Best way to ensure patient confidentiality?
A- post on social media
B-share it with your college for input
C-document his info and call his family immediately
D-share it solely with the EMS team
1186. child with flu symptoms + trial of amoxicillin with no improvement. Mother asking about preventive
measures?
A. vitamin C supplements
B. vaccines to respiratory pathogen
1187. Patient presents with depression, loss of appetite, start isolation from people, and want to
use of marijuana to relieve stress . They also show anxiety and depression drug no
compliance.
(On examination she was Unkempt with slurred speech.)
with What is the most appropriate initial investigation?
A. Complete blood count (CBC)
B. Urine drug test
C. Pulmonary function test
D. Thyroid function test
1188. 2 years old has Aortic stenosis his parents brought him due to new progressive SOB during moderate
exercise,
ECHO: Moderate AS

Most appropriate management?
A. Aortic valve balloon
B. Medications for his symptoms
C. reassurance
1189. Pedia came complaining of headache etc, did MRI and was diagnosed with medulloblastoma
Parent refuse to believe it, what should the doctor say?
A-"you are in denial, accept it"
B-" I know this is difficult, but it's confirmed brain tumor"
C-"Let's ignore the diagnosis and treat her symptoms"
D-"don't worry about it it's mostly benign"
1190. Down syndrome delivered 2 days ago, what is the recommended screening for this patient:
A. Serial abdominal x ray for another atresia “not duodenal”
B. Serial US for pyloric stenosis
C. Observe meconium passage 24-48 hours
D. Fecal calprotectin for necrotizing fasciitis
Answer: D
1191. Pt Newly dignosed with diabetes mellitus, Hb1C 7.9. His BMI 34. What is the first line for him?
A- DDP4 inhibitor
B- liproglutide
C- metformin
D- sulfonylurea
1192. What is the most common risk factor for abruptio placenta?
A. Folate deficiency

B. Short Umbilical cord
C. Maternal hypertension
D. Premature rupture of membranes
1193. Patient post op 6 days of colectomy. Have muscle weakness fatigue and palpitation Potassium
2.5 (low) What is most critical to check?
A)Check for respiratory distress
B)Check ABG
C)Check diet in the past week
D)Maintain urine outputest
1194. Patient presented to the ER with pelvic fracture, he is actively bleeding with a large hematoma in
the pelvis, his BP = 80/50 (or something near to this) , most appropriate management?
A- Emergency laparotomy
B- Transfuse packed red blood cells
1195. A pregnant woman has a history of preeclampsia in a previous pregnancy.
What to do to prevent preeclampsia in the future pregnancy?
A- Complete bed rest
B- Low-dose aspirin
C- Restrict calcium intake to prevent hypertension
D- Increase sodium intake
1196. Preterm rom was given a medication for prevention of respiratory distress.
What is the medication?
A. Steroids
B. Ibuprofen
C. Antibiotics
D. Paracetamol
1197. A 15-week pregnant woman who smokes regularly is worried that smoking might cause ADHD
or other problems in her baby.
What is the most appropriate management?
A. Prescribe nicotine replacement therapy (NRT)
B. Refer her to a smoking cessation support group and counseling
C. Tell her to stop smoking abruptly without support

D. Missing
1198. 72 year old female underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Post operatively she complains of
fever, tachycardia and leukocytosis. In examination of the wound there was slight erythema and
no pus formation.
Temperature: 38.6, HR: 116, BP: 90/60
Which of the following is most likely diagnosis?
A- Thrombophilia
B- UTI
C- Surgical site infection
D- SIRS
1199. 28-year-old woman, not known to have any medical illness, complains of increased sleepiness,
fatigue and does not drink alcohol. Examination reveals an overweight patient, not in distress, with no lymphadenopathy or masses
(see lab results).
high tsh , low t4 ( dont remember numbers) +ve anti tpo
HBsag -ve
Anti hbs +ve
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Graves’ disease
B- Subacute thyroiditis
C- Sick euthyroid syndrome
D- Hashimoto’s thyroiditis

1200. Child fell down then had tonic-clonic seizure, came to the ER, drowsy but arousable, neurological exam
is normal (includes pupils ... ete), best step:
A. Urgent non-contrast CT
B. Admit for observation 24 hours
C. Observe in the ER for 2 hours
D. Discharge home on instructions
1201. A patient presents after total thyroidectomy with numbness around the mouth and in the peripheral limbs.
What is the most likely cause?
A) Hypoparathyroidism
B) Injury to recurrent laryngeal nerve
C) Hypothyroidism
D) Hypocalcemia due to vitamin D deficiency
1202. A 5-year-old girl presents with fever and burning urination. Which of the following is the most
appropriate empiric antibiotic?
A) Oral amoxicillin
B) IM ceftriaxone
C) IV ciprofloxacin
1203. I remember the sucking reflex and the automatic walking reflex disappear at what age. Each question had :
2 months
4
6
8
1204. Long term management of X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency?
A-Bone Marrow transplant
B- immunoglobulin monthly
1205. A 35-year-old woman diagnosed with left tubal ectopic pregnancy was treated with methotrexate. She remained asymptomatic
with a plateauing of Beta hCG on day 4 and day 7. Which of the following is the most appropriate next management step?
A. Laparoscopic salpingectomy
B. Repeat Beta hCG in one week
C. Second dose of methotrexate
D. Repeat Beta hCG in 48 hours

1206. An 11-year-old boy is brought to the clinic by his mother. She is concerned of bed-wetting overnight
despite toilet training and several sessions of discussion. He feels a shamed and asked help from his
family and physician. Which of the following is the best management?
A. Avoid punishment
B. Desmopressin intra-nasal
C. Alarm beds with positive reinforcement
D. Family centred approach and techniques
1207.
An elderly patient presents with chest pain, shortness of breath, and hypotension. On examination, there is a systolic murmur
radiating to the axilla. ECG shows ST elevation in leads V2–V4, and troponin is markedly elevated. What is the most likely cause of
hypotension?
A. Cardiogenic shock
B. Pulmonary embolism
C. Drug-induced hypotension
D. Acute mitral regurgitation
1208. 42 Y. O women taking chemotherapy for breast cancer, come in flu season and ask for vaccines due her weak immunity
What vaccine to give and which type
A. Give inactive vacc
B. Inform her it's unnecessary
C. Give both active and inactive
D. Avoid all vaccine untill complete chemotherapy
1209. Pregnant 10 weeks gestation want to get abortion, she say she heart problem (Severe pulmonary hypertension), right
ventricular hypertrophy, What to do?
A. Accept abortion because it's life-threatening

B. Refuse citing religious and personal beliefs
1210. Abortion because mother has SEVER LV function (they wrote stuff in the question to emphasize they its deadly to her
- accept abortion because of maternal mortality risk
1211. A pregnant female in her first trimester (10 wks I think) only values provided were normal Hb and normal hematocrit.
Question was: How much iron does she need throughout her pregnancy?
A- 1000 mg
B-2000 mg
C-3000 mg
D-4000 mg
1212. A 22-year-old man presents with altered sensorium for the last 2 days and headaches for 5 days, with a history of fever for the
preceding month. On examination, there is nuchal rigidity (see lab results).Test Result Normal Values Hb 100 130-170 g/L WBC 11
4.5-10.5 x 109/L Glucose, fasting 7.22 3.5-6.5 mol/L Cerebrospinal Fluid: Test Result Normal Values Appearance turbid clear Cells
240 0-3 /uL Total protein 3.6 0.22-0.33 g/L Glucose 2.7
2.50-3.89 mmol/L Neutrophils 23 0-1% Lymphocytes 73 0-1%
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Septicemia
Tubercular meningitis
Phylogenetic meningitis
Viral meningoencephalitis
1213.

1214. 32 year old females had never done HPV or pap smear. What should you do for primary prevention?
A- pap sme
HPV vaccine
lipid profile
-irrelevant
1215. Pediatric patients with DKA after corrections he becomes drowsy How to manage?
IV mannitol
IV NS bolus every 15 min
Answer: A
Better Recall:
10-year-old boy presents to the Emergency Department with polyuria, polydipsia, abdominal pain, and vomiting. He is diagnosed with
diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and is started on IV fluids and IV insulin infusion. After 2 hours of treatment, the child becomes confused
and drowsy, with a decreased
level of consciousness. Vital signs are stable, and blood glucose is declining steadily. What is the most appropriate next step in
management?
Administer IV mannitol
Give more IV fluids
Stop insulin and observe
Give dextrose-containing fluids only
1216. 14 y old boy with ulcerative colitis have toxic megacolon . Urgent management ?
A - Iv fluid and avoid oral intake
B - colectomy
C - Antibiotics
D- Methotrexate
Q: 14 year old pt with ulcerative colitis failed to respond to many medical therapies . Patient has fulminant disease complicated by
toxic megacolon , which of the following is the most appropriate URGENT treatment?
A- colectomy
B- methotrexate
C- systemic antibiotics
D- Total parental nutrition
1217. pt symptomatic came to er, pic provided with heart block, what to do to diagnose (not sure tho)?
a. myocardial perfusion scan

b. coronary ct angiogram
c. coronary angiogram
d. chest x ray
1218. lady with previous ectopic pregnency, risk of developing an ectopic pregnancy in next pregnancy?
1. 1-6%
b. 7-10%
c. 15%
d. 20%
Q: Pregnant concern she has history of ectopic pregnancy. Now she wants to know risk of ectpic pregnancy happen again?
A. 1%
B. 5%
C. 10%
D. 15%
1219. A 3-year-old boy presents with a barky cough, appears cyanotic, and has spells
of breath-holding. On auscultation, you hear a monophasic wheeze. There is no
inspiratory stridor noted. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Bronchitis or bronchiolitis
B- Tracheomalacia
C- Laryngomalacia
D- Bronchial asthma
Q: 4 year old boy came with barking cough and on auscultation there was monophonic wheeze and he was cyanotic with no
inspiratory stridor?
Bronchiolitis
Tracheomalacia
Laryngiomalacia
B.asthma
Answer: Tracheomalacia
1220. A 2-month-old infant is brought to Well Baby Clinic by her mother because she is crying intensely

recently and is not sleeping well overnight. The mother gave history of normal feeding. No fever or
vomiting. These crying episodes are 2 to 3 min per week, last for 1 to 2 hours since the age of 1
month.
Which of the following is the recommended revealing measure?
A- Changing formula
B- Oral colic drops
C- Getting a baby sitter
D- Behavioural adaptation
1221. A 68-year-old man has been advised to undergo surgical treatment for a left reducible inguinal
hernia. He is otherwise healthy. Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A- Simple repair
B- Open mesh repair
C- Laparoscopic repair
D- Non-surgical treatment
1222. A 42-year-old P4+2 presented with severe, progressive secondary dysmenorrhea and menorrhagia.
Pelvic examination demonstrated a tender, diffusely enlarged uterus (see report). Endometrial
biopsy: Normal endometrium. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Endometritis
B- Endometriosis
C- Adenomyosis
D- Uterine sarcoma
Q: A 45-year-old P5+3 presented with abnormal uterine bleeding, regular cycle, associated with clots and pain not relieved by
simple analgesia. Previous myomectomy and 3 surgical evacuations. Pelvic exam: bulky, tender uterus, no adnexal mass.
BMI 40. Most likely explanation?
A. Adenomyosis
B. Endometriosis
C. Uterine fibroid
D. Endometrial cancer
1223. A 20-year-old asymptomatic woman presented to the clinic with lower abdominal pain for 3
months (see lab result and report). Ultrasound: A multiloculated, solid, right adnexal complex mass of 6
cm.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management?

A. Cystectomy
B. Oophorectomy
C. Review in 6 months
D. Ultrasound-guided aspiration
Q: A 21-year-old primigravida at 40 weeks of gestation with breech presentation is planned for a
cesarean section. During surgery, a right ovarian cyst measuring 5 cm is observed.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Cystectomy
B. Oophorectomy
C. No intervention
D. Squeeze and rupture
Answer: A
1224. Case of a child only eating bread and milk . He always ( wand to eat weird thing forget what is it i assume it is PICA )
His Hb was 7 lab result given
What is his management :
A blood transfusion
B Give oral iron and encourage healthy food
Q: Child came to the clinic regarding poor nutrition, he is always eating biscuits and milk and not eating well. On
examination there is mild conjunctival pallor, Hb is 6.2 mg/dl with low MCV.

What is the most appropriate management for this child?
A. Immediate blood transfusion
B. Give oral iron and advise diet modification
C- Bone marrow aspiration
D- Folate with multivitamins
Answer: B (confirmed)
1225. Pregnant women in 24 w of gestation on exam Baby is dead (Stillbirth case). Which of the following is best action
A- CS
B- observe
C- induce labor
1226. a case of epistaxis.. What is the most appropriate position?
A. Sitting and leaning forward.
B. standing and leaning forward.
C. sitting and leaning back,
D. standing and leaning
1227. male in his 50s , smoker complaining of cough with clear mucus and breathlessness.
This attack lasted for 3-4 days and similar attacks 1 year ago .
Chest x ray hyperinflation ( not sure what else)
Diagnosis?
A. Cancer
B. Pulmonary embolism
C. Chronic bronchitis
D. Bronchiectasis
1228. Pregnant women 41 week gestation she indicate that she spontaneous delivery . Most apropriate action:
A. cesarean section 42 week
B. induction of labor at 42 weeks
C. serial fetal surveillance.
Q: 20-years-old patient pregnant in 41 weeks of gestation. She wants spontaneous delivery to avoid bleeding. What to do for her?
A- Tell her Coming after 1 week for induction of labor
B- Discharge out of the clinic
C- Fetal monitor

D- Perform CS at 42 weeks
1229. Patient did thyroidectomy he developed a peri oral tingling so diagnosis?
A. Hypoparathyroidism
B. Thyroid storm
1230. Symptoms of pertussis
Management
A. Azithromycin
.B Ceftriaxone
. Steroids
1231. A patient presents with signs & symptoms of meningitis.
Lumbar puncture findings are as follows:
CSF glucose: 3.5mmol/L
CSF protein: 500 mg/L (reference range: 100–400 mg/L)
Predominant lymphocytes
Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment for the specific causative
organism?
A. Intravenous Ceftriaxone and Vancomycin
B. Intravenous Methylprednisolone
C. Intravenous Antifungal therapy
D. Intravenous Acyclovir
Q: A 22-year-old man presents to Emergency Department with 4-days history of fever, headache and confusion. On examination,
Kernig's sign is present (see lab results and reports). Temperature 39 °C, Cells 380 0-3 /pL, Total protein (Men) 0.8 0.22-0.33 g/L,
Glucose 3.7 2.50-3.89 mmol/L CSF analysis: WBC differential count: 5% neutrophil and 90% lymphocytes. CSF Culture: Pending.
Which of the following is the most appropriate intravenous treatment option?
Ceftriaxone, vancomycin and steroid
Ceftriaxone and vancomycin
Ceftriaxone
Acyclovir

1232. 55
Years old woman presents with Ascus positive
What is the next step in management
A. HPV
B. Colonoscopy
1233. Patient hypertensive
Tachycardic
No obvious external injury
What is the type of shock
A. Hypovolemic
B. Neurogenic
1234. Hypotensive tachycardic GCS low
A. Fluid resuscitation
B. primary survey following ABCDE
Q: 25 year-old MVA patient. Suffering head trauma in the process.he is conscious but disoriented
A. Primary survey ABCDE
B. Head CT
C. Head to toe exam
D-observation

1235. A 29‑year‑old woman with a history of primary hypothyroidism has been taking levothyroxine 100 mcg daily for the past three
years. She comes to the clinic after a positive home pregnancy test. She feels well and has no new symptoms. Her most recent TSH
level, checked two months ago, was within the normal range. She asks what she should do with her thyroid medication now that she
is pregnant.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Continue the same levothyroxine dose and recheck TSH in the third trimester
B. Increase the levothyroxine dose by approximately 25–30% and check TSH in 4–6 weeks
C. Stop levothyroxine temporarily and recheck thyroid function in one month
D. Switch from levothyroxine to liothyronine (T3) during pregnancy
1236. 45 year-old male smoker 20 pack per year
No symptoms
his father has lung cancer
What is the most important in step regarding screening
A. Low dose CT scan annually
B. Smoking cessation without screening
1237. Pregnant woman presents with a history of dyspnea
Shortness of breath
Do dupler US of both legs
Normal
What is the best diagnostic test
CT angiography
VQ
Pulmonary function test
1238. researcher wants to study the effect of Drug X.
He found several published studies with small sample sizes and wants to collect and compare their results statistically to reach a
more reliable conclusion.
What is the most appropriate study design to use?
A. Cohort study
B. Case–control study
C. Meta-analysis
Q: Folic acid dose for pregnant lady with no risk factors?
A- 0.2 mg
B- 0.8 mg
C- 1.4 mg
D- 2.4 mg

Answer: B
1239. 55-year-old woman presents with a scaly, oozing lesion on the right nipple for the past few weeks.
On physical examination, no palpable breast masses are found.
Breast ultrasound and mammogram are normal.
What is the next best step in management?
A. Refer to dermatologist
B. Prescribe topical steroid cream
C. Nipple biopsy
1240. A woman delivered a baby After 6 hours in labor with the umbilical cord around the neck.
, how can you prevent postpartum hemorrhage?
A) Immediate uterine massage
B) Oxytocin 10 IU IM
C) Cut and clamp the cord within 1–3 minutes
D) (Option about cord smothing)
1241. patient is planning a long-flight. He is concerned about developing deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Which of the following is the
most appropriate preventive measure?
A. Keep legs elevated throughout the flight
B. Take aspirin prophylactically
C. Perform periodic leg exercises and ambulate during the flight
1242. هروﺻ و xray with lower lobe involvement
A. staph
B. mycoplasma
c. legonila
D. streptococcus #
Q: A 7-year-old child presents with pneumonia. What is the most common causative organism?
A) Escherichia coli
B) Streptococcus pneumoniae
C) Group B Streptococcus
D) Escherichia coli
Answer: B
Q: A patient presented with green sputum and fever. The chest X-ray shows consolidation. What is the most likely cause?
• Streptococcus pneumoniae
• Legionella
Q: 7-year-old child presented with shortness of breath. On examination, there was unilateral
dullness. X ray showed consolidations What is the most likely causative organism?

A. Group b streptococcus
B. Streptococcus pneumoniae
C. Pseudomonas aeruginosa
D. Haemophilus influenzae
Answer: B. Streptococcus pneumoniae
1243. ecg with st elevation
then asked best ttt?
pci
1244. Pt has mycoplasma inv low Hg
a. reassure
B. corticosteroids
1245. child vaccination has rhinitis coryza and conjunctivitis?
a. give mmr #
b. give mmr wiithour rubella
c. no need
1246. pt has cought with lisnopril?
A. give his losartan
1247. wifw deteriorating and need consent?
A. concent ethic committee
B. consent hb over the phone
1248. A 45-year-old obese woman presented with 1-week history of jaundice, anorexia and abdominal pain.
She has no chronic illnesses and not on any medications. On examination, she is jaundiced with stable
vital signs and no fever. Abdomen exam showed mild tender liver with span of 13 cm, no splenomegaly
(see lab results).
Test Result Normal Values
RBC 4 4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male)
4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female)

Hb 110 130-170 g/L. (Male)
120-160 g/L (Female)
Platelets count 212 150-400 × 109/L
WBC 18 4.5-10.5 x 109/L
Direct bilirubin 79 1.5-6.5 mol/L
Total bilirubin 98 3.5-16.5 mol/L
Aspartate aminotransferase 70 12-40 IU/L
Alanine aminotransferase 150 5-40 IU/L
Alkaline phosphatase 1000 39-117 IU/L
Which of the following is the next step in the management?
A. MRCP
B. Liver biopsy
**C. Abdominal ultrasound
D. Abdominal CT scan of the liver
1249. Child in Outpatient with chills fever and +ve nitrate & Leukocyte, asked about what do next?
A-Reassure
B-Refer to hospital for IV antibiotic
C-Oral Antibiotic
1250. I think (21 years age )present with knee pain and mild fever and the systolic murmur after 3 weeks of URTI what gives??
_ Chorichosteriod
_ Paracetamol
_ i forgot...
_ ACETYLSALICYLIC ACID
1251. A 20-30s male patient presented to the ER complaining of a perianal painful lump for 12
hours, which he felt after the passage of a hard stool. On exam, there is a 1 x 1 cm
dome-shaped, bluish, tender swelling just beneath the perianal skin.
What is the most appropriate management?
A- Conservative management
B- Rubber band ligation
C- Lateral sphincterotomy
D-Aspiration

1252. A 45-year-old man under investigation for hypertension was prescribed a drug for his lipid disorder. One week later, he
returned with intense facial flushing after taking the medication. He was advised to take a full dose of aspirin three times daily
instead of a low dose once daily, which completely relieved the flushing.
[HDL cholesterol: 0.72 mmol/L (<1.03), LDL cholesterol: 5.30 mmol/L (<3.36) , Total cholesterol: 6.12 mmol/L (<5.1), Triglycerides:
2.20 mmol/L (<2.16)
ALT: 35 IU/L (5-40), CK: 205 IU/L (24-195)
Which drug was he prescribed?
Niacin
Clofibrate
Atorvastatin
Cholestyramine
1253. A 26 years old lady, she is healthy, complaining of irritability and breast tenderness one week
before about mental cycle, she is asking for reducing her symptoms with exercises.
Which type of exercises can be done?
A. Aerobic
B. Flexibility and Mobility
1254. A 30-year-old woman presents with amenorrhea for the past 6 weeks.
What is the most appropriate initial test?
A. TSH level
B. FSH level

C. Pregnancy test
D. Ultrasound of the pelvis
1255. Pediatric with KNEE pain (Single Joint) , limited range of motion, warmth, had gastroenteritis 2 weeks ago US
shows effusion How to MANAGEA (It was management)
A. oral ibuprofen
B. oral aspirin? Anelgesia? Don't remember
C. synovial aspiration for analysis and culture
D. I think IV ABX
1256. A 28-year-old patient presents with a history of 10-day of palpitations, sweating and neck discomfort (see lab
results). Blood pressure 110/70 mmH Heart rate 116 /min Respiratory rate 18/min Temperature 37.7° C Oxygen
saturation 95% on room air Thyroxine (T4 free) 76.5 8.5 - 15.2 pmol/L Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone 0.15 0.4 - 5.0 U/L
WBC 5.2 4.5-10.5 × 109/L ESR 73 2-10 mm/h Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Graves' disease
B. Subacute thyroiditis
C. Hashimoto's thyroiditis
D. Multinodular toxic goiter
1257. Old age male with lesion on right thigh. Lesion was well demarcated, red, painful to touch. What's the next
investigation?
A. Punch Biopsy
B. MRI of the lesion
C. Xray
D. USG
1258. A 33-year-old man with a history of severe asthma is admitted to the Emergency Department with an asthma
attack. He received high-flow oxygen and nebulized salbutamol. He is unable to complete sentences, has bilateral
expiratory wheeze, and is unable to perform a peak flow reading. He was immediately given intravenous hydrocortisone
and nebulized salbutamol continuously. After 10 minutes, there is no improvement, and intravenous magnesium sulfate
was given. His condition continues to deteriorate (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Non-invasive ventilation
B. Add intravenous aminophylline
C. Add nebulized ipratropium bromide
D. Intubation and mechanical ventilation
1259. Elderly patient with advanced lung cancer presents acute exacerbation , he said to healthcare team please do not
resuscitate or intubate in the future. His family insist to treat their father aggressively, thinking he will able to improve
his condition. Healthcare team uncertain about patient wishes. Which of the following is first priority in this situation?
A- consult ethics board guidance

B- immediate resuscitation without consent
C- family members has privileges superior than patients wishes
D- documentation of patient wish regarding DNR
1260. Elderly patient who recently underwent major surgery is now presenting with shortness of breath, chest pain , and has a
confirmed DVT. The patient also had an ischemic stroke two months ago. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Start warfarin
B. inferior vena cava (IVC) filter
C. Administer fibrinolytics
1261. 7 yrs old girl with type 1 dm, recently with loss of weight, glucose 250mg/dl. what is the something advice best *approach*
for her?
A-educate the family on how to use insulin..
B-give her pamphlet and for follow up
C-advice to decrease carbs intakes..
D- Postpone Education Till Glucose Is Controlled
1262. 26 yo man, complaining of intermittent wheezing after exercise, he mentioned he always gets wheezing after exercising, on
e/o diffuse bilateral wheeze What is the appropriate management?
A) inhaler salbutamol
B) inhaler fluticasone
C) IV mg
D) IV steroid
1263. Case about a 30-40 man getting blood transfusion in the ER and minutes after he got skin rash and facial flushes: How to
prevent this:
A) Fast pushing the blood bag
B) Pre-Medicated Anti-histamine
C) Warming the blood bag
D) Matching the recipient with the donor ethnicity
1264. The doctor ordered xray for patient finds out later that she’s pregnant in her first trimester. What should the doctor do?
a) confirm fetal gestational age
b) follow standard imaging protocol
c) defer procedure indefinitely
d) prioritize quality of images regardless of dose
1265. 7-year-old child presents with upper abdominal pain that wakes him from sleep and subsides when eating. His mother
mentions that he has a history of peptic ulcer previously. What is the most diagnostic for the suspected diagnosis?
A. EGD with biopsy

B. Over-the-counter antacids
C. Give PPI
D. H. pylori antibiotic prophylaxis
1266. 5 years old girl came to emergency department complaining of, fever painful micturition. What is best management?
A-oral ampicillin
B-Oral something
C-IV ciprofloxacin
D-IM ceftriaxone
1267. A 61-year-old woman has just received a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of uterine cancer. Family asks the doctor not to tell
her, they are carrying and loving, and her condition won’t improve. What is the most appropriate next step for the physician?
A. Respect the family’s wishes and avoid disclosing the diagnosis to thepatient.
B. Report the situation to the hospital’s ethics committee
C. Refuse the family’s request and must inform the diagnosis to the patient
D. Delay disclosure until the family gives permission writing document
1268. Child brought by his mother with lethargy, pallor, low grade subjective fever, lymphadenopathy for 2 months. What to do
next?
A) Blood film
B) Virology screening
C) Bone marrow examination
1269. 30 yo female with a family hx of breast cancer in her mother when she was 45yo, she is requesting BRACA screening, did
breast examination was normal. What to write on the consent? - discontinue the consoling as she has no symptoms
A. tell her the test will prevent future risk of ca
B.discuss emotional impact of positive test
C. tell her the test useless at her age
1270. A child had an URTI for 4 days (he has clear nasal discharge, fever, sneezing) , 3 days after resolving of the symptoms he
presented with purulent nasal discharge and frontal tenderness.

What's the diagnosis
A- Viral upper respiratory tract infection
B- Acute Bacterial sinusitis
C- Allergic Rhinosinusitis
D- unrelated
1271. 35-year-old male with chronic diarrhea, steatorrhea, and weight loss. Endoscopy: blunting of villi. Diagnosis:
A. Celiac disease
B. Whipple's disease
C. Crohn's disease
1272. Female came to the ER after MVA with severe abdominal pain, BP is 83/50, (no hb level was mentioned) what is the initial
step?
A- IV fluid and observe
B- Exploratory laparotomy
C- Packed RBC transfusion
1273. A pregnant woman is undergoing an operation and told the nurse she doesn’t want a blood transfusion beforehand. Now
she has severe bleeding and became hypotensive. Which of the following is the most appropriate action?
A) Start the blood transfusion now
B) Consult the ethics committee
C) Take the consent from the patient before she loses consciousness
D) Take consent from the husband
1274. A 24-year-old primigravida at her 11th week of pregnancy presents with lethargy, constipation, and intolerance to cold
temperature. Laboratory investigations reveal an elevated TSH level. The mother is anxious about her baby and fears intellectual
disability. What is the most appropriate management?
Propylthiouracil
Multivitamins
Thyroxine
Thyroidectomy
1275. Young female presented to Ek with severe shoulder pain, with visible deformity of the shoulder, inability to abduct the arm
What is the next step in evaluation:
MRI
СТ
Plain Xray
Surgical exploration

1276. My recall is bad on this one there was a child had I think chest pain, sore throat or some sort of infection then he got pain in his
right knee while left is perfect how can u treat I think they mentioned that there is redness and slight effusion on physical
examination:
Acetyl salicylic acid
Steroids (Not sure)
reassurance (Not sure)
other medication
Pretty sure there was no investigation on this on + I chose thinking it might be rheumatic fever related however might be recall bias I
focused on only things that support my answer
1277. Question about old male with hyperlipidemia and hypertension on medication. He came with progressive abdominal
distention. He had AST elevated months ago, and now he came with progressive abdominal distention. No other symptoms were
mentioned. Labs, AST and ALT were high, almost 100 both.
Asking what is the best next step or image.
A, echo.
B, ultrasound for liver and pancreas.
C, CT abdomen.
Initial=US
BEST/GOLD/CONFIRMATORY=BIOPSY
Q: A 60-year-old female with history of HTN, DLP, DM, came with increased abdominal distention, no history of alcohol use, he
reported 10 years history of high aminotransferase, upon examination she has ascites no organomegaly. What is the next step? There
were labs of elevated LFTS I think 3-fold NOT in the thousands but don’t remember them unfortunately And question asked for next
step
A. Echocardiography
B. Ultrasound liver and spleen
C. Ct abdomen
D. Maybe liver biopsy
1278. A surgeon performs many successful surgery and the hospital requested them to expand the practice and do
complex vascular surgeries, the surgeon didn’t complete training in them and has no certification in vascular surgeries
What is the action by the credentialing committee?
A- Approve restricted privileges for supervised surgeries
B- Request review for approve post surgeon formal training
C- Approve after the surgeon complete a brief course
D- Approve as the surgeon is successful
1279. In a population of 50,000 individuals during the year 2024, there were 250 new cases of diabetes and 50 deaths due
to diabetes. What is the mortality rate for diabetes per 1,000 population?
A- 0.5 per 1,000

B- 1 per 1,000 (=1)
C- 5 per 1,000 (=5)
D- 10 per 1,000 (=10)
1280. patient underwent sigmoidectomy using previously used surgical instruments. Which measure now helps reduce
the risk of surgical site infection? ( it was written what will reduce in this scenario)
A. Postoperative antibiotics
B. Maintain normothermia
C. Sterilization in the upcoming surgery
D. No effect on the wound
The Q is general not about this patient
1281. 56 year old male , past history of peptic ulcer , present to ER with severe abdominal pain , tenderness all abdomen
, guarding , Rebound Skin cool and clammy Hypotensive 87/60 Heart rate 120, Initial management ?
A. Iv fluid
B. laparotomy
C. vasopressor
Q: Known case of peptic ulcer presented with abdominal pain tenderness and rebound tenderness with guarding blood
pressure was 85/55 and tachycardia 120 what the initial management?
A. IV fluid
B. vasopressor
C. blood transfusion
D. antibiotic
1282. 17YO female has amenorrhea for 6 weeks Comes with mild bleeding Cervical os is open also there’s bleeding and
pain What is next?
A. Pelvic MRI
B. TVUS
C. Reassess bhcg in 48 hrs
D. Re evaluate after 10 days
1283. 31YO female trying to conceive for 3 years but unsuccessful, seman analysis normal, BMI 32 Want IVF
A. Do IVF

B. Lifestyle modification and induction FIRST
1284. 50 years old man in the clinic with stressful job and high sodium diet and no physical activity bp: high (i guess it
was 150/90? Im not sure) Sodium:high
A- prescribed anti hypertensive immediately
B- ask him to monitor his bp and follow up
C- lifestyle changes (was more specific like less sodium and more activity)
D- tell him his bp is okay and nothing to worry about
1285. 6 weeks presented w jaundice and alcoholic stool and he also has pulmonary stenosis, butterfly vertebrae and
triangular face What is the possible diagnosis ?
A. duodenal atresia
B. Alagille Syndrome
1286. Child with 4 recurrent adenotonsillitis within one academic year, his parents worried bc it affects his school
attendance. What to do??
A. Immediate tonsillectomy
B. Prophylactic antibiotics in cold
C. Proper washing & respiratory etiquette
D. Avoid outdoor activities during cold season
1287. A newborn with Hemophilia A presents with bleeding. What is the appropriate treatment?
• FFP
• Factor VII
1288. Pt came with cough and frothy pink sputum BP 80/40 HR 125 O2 (I think low) I think the question is asking what
is true regarding the condition
A. Increase Cardiac Output
B. Increase systematic vascular reactance
C. Decrease central venous pressure
D. Decrease Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure
1289. A well circumscribed red swelling under the conjunctiva
A. Episcleritis
B. Scleritis

1290. A 10-year-old boy presents to the clinic complaining of abdominal pain, frequent diarrhoea that is sometimes
bloody, and pain usually accompanying defecation. His mother observed that he has lost weight over the last 3 months
since the onset of the problem. The boy also has aches and pains of his joints. On examination, he looks ill, pale, with a
so> abdomen, no tenderness or organomegaly (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Celiac disease
B. Crohn's disease
C. Ulcerative colitis
D. Chronic dysentery
1291. Women last period was 6 weeks she came with mild vaginl bleeding without abdomen pain us no intrauterine
gestational sac labs bhcg first 3000. Seconds 7000 third week 16000?
A-give methotrexate .
B- bhcg measure after 48 hr.
C- pelvic us.
D- reassure the patient
1292. 4 years old primigravida qin 37 week presented with blood pressure 160/100 mmhg and she was irritable, fundus
hight was 35 cm and cervix was soft, 1 cm dilated, with intact membrane fetus was 2.2 kg and low amniotic fluid.
Doppler show absent umbilical artery Whats the appropriate management?
A. Amniotomy
B. CS
C. induction of labor
D. observation until spontaneous delivery
1293. 4 years old primigravida qin 37 week presented with blood pressure 160/100 mmhg and she was irritable, fundus
hight was 35 cm and cervix was soft, 1 cm dilated, with intact membrane fetus was 2.2 kg and low amniotic fluid. Whats
the appropriate management?
A. Amniotomy
B. CS
C. induction of labor
D. observation until spontaneous delivery
1294. 12 years old presented with fever and night sweat and painless cervical lymph nodes enlargment FNA: show
Reed–Sternberg cells What the diagnosis?
A. AML
B. Hodgkin lymphoma

1295. 3 day age neonate c/s delivery have desaturation and grunting also blue lips around mouth
A. pneumonia
B. cystic fibrosis
C. TTN
D. RDS
1296. 3 (weeks old or days old baby) presented to the ER with lethargy poor feeding, hypotonia, irritability (i think), his
bedside glucose was 35 mg/dl. Critical labs was drown before glucose correction. Lab results: beta-hydroxybutyrate
levels 0.1 (Normal >1.5) Glucose 2.2 mmol/l (low) Fasting insulin 44 (i think normal) Cortisol 4 hours above normal (i
think slightly high) Other labs normal
A- adrenal insufficiency
B- Glycogen storage disease
C- Congenital hyperinsulism
D- Growth hormone deficiency (not sure)
1297. Female patient came 2 weeks after delivery with mood swings and feeling overwhelmed, she has no thought to
harm herself or her baby. She is breastfeeding. She has good social support. What to do?
A- stop breastfeeding
B- reassure
C- prescribe antidepressants
D- encourage her (or support her) and follow up her
1298. A 12 years old female (I think) had a loss of consciousness after sitting in the sun for sometime. what is the red flag
for this patient?
A- jerky movements
B- Dizziness before LOC C
D- Family history of early unexplained death

1299. 59 have fever chills copd , dm , we give fluid bolus and bp still low
A. Dubatmin
B. Hydrocortisone
C. Norepinephrine
D. Another fluid bolus
1300. janduice and 2 Liver lesion in the right lobe what is the disease that is risk factor for this condition
Aflatoxin
Lead toxin
Wilson disease
Hepatitis b
1301. Pt treat his rheumatoid arthritis with methotrexate and have mouth ulcer and rigor what is the cause
Felty syndrome
Methotrexate induced neutropenia
1302. Miatral valve prolapse and regurge and he want to do dentist procedure and no hx of endocarditis what to give for
prophylaxis for endocarditis
Amoxicillin 2m before and 12 after surgery
Metronidazole 500 before and after 6 hours of surgery
Q: women with MVP and sever MR without endocarditis , want dentist procedure what to give?
A- no need to prophylaxis
B- amoxicillin
1303. 7 month child with asthma symptoms what is the diagnostic test
Xray
Ct
Spirometry
1304. A 69-year-old man complains of shortness of breath and weight loss for the last 6 months. He has a 40-pack-year
smoking history and no TB or HIV risk factors (see reports). Chest X-ray: A large left-sided pleural effusion.
Thoracentesis: 1,500 mL of bloody fluid that is strongly exudative by Light's criteria. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step?

A. Empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics
B. CT chest with contrast
C. Blind pleural biopsy
1305. A 69-year-old man complains of shortness of breath and weight loss for the last 6 months. He has a 40-pack-year
smoking history and no TB or HIV risk factors (see reports). Chest X-ray: A large left-sided pleural effusion.
Thoracentesis: 1,500 mL of bloody fluid that is strongly exudative by Light's criteria. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step?
A. Empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics
B. CT chest with contrast
C. pleural biopsy
1306. Women with dysmenorrhea (what is the important in her history ?
Family
Medical
Surgery
Menstrual
1307. There was a case about a pediatric having polydipsia polyuria and 150 urine osmolality And 350 serum osmolality
(They mentioned na level too but i forgot) After fluid deprivation test there was no change in osmolality but giving
vasopressin, osmolality increased , in this case, what medication that the patient would be long term on?
- Desmopressin (DDAVP)
- i forgot but i think steroids?
Q:A boy presented with polyuria, polydipsia, and nocturia Urine osmolality 120 Serum osmolality 300 (Numbers are not
accurate) Water deprivation test: After giving desmopressin urine osmolality improved. What is the best long-term
management?
A. Fluid restriction
B. Desmopressin
1308. 2 years old male presented in annual checkup with start to have abnormal fasting glucose result and high blood
preesure readings (No numbers just like this) . His BMI is 31 classifying him as obese with history of significant smoking
and frequent fast food eating with sedentary lifestyle. LDL:4.03 Total cholesterol: 7.04 What is initial step in managing
the patient ?
A- Focus in weight loss to reduce BMI.
B- Start antihypertensive medication and lipid lowering agent
C- smoking cessation , exercise , reduce weight and follow up him

D- Reassurance and annual follow up
1309. A 12-year-old boy presents with chronic diarrhea, blood in stool, weight loss, and fever. What is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Admit for full workup
B. Start a proton pump inhibitor (PPI)
1310. A 12-year-old boy presents with chronic diarrhea, blood in stool, weight loss, and fever. What is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Admit for full workup
B. Start a proton pump inhibitor (PPI)
C. Colonoscopy
D. CT
Q: ANOTHER EXAMINER: No Colonoscopy OR CT In The Options , Just “Refer To Pediatric Surgery” And
Something Irrelevant
1311. Patient will travel to southeast asia , previously developed diarrhea. Now asking how to prevent it ?
A- Drink bottled water and avoid raw food
B- Eat packaged snack only
C- Don't do anything to boost immunity
D- antibiotics ?
A??
1312. A physician plans to prescribe a biologic inhaler for a child with asthma. The inhaler is very expensive, and the
doctor has previously given a conference about this drug. Which of the following statements is ethically correct?
A. The physician has no justification for prescribing an expensive medication
B. The physician should have prescribed the cheaper generic version
C. The doctor does not have a financial interest
D. Patient will overestimate the effect of the expensive medication

1313. 4-year-old child is brought to the clinic for a check-up. When performing a cover test, the child's deft eye moves
laterally when the right eye is covered. The family hesitate to start treatment Which of the following is the most serious
complication?
A. Strabismus
B. Nystagmus
C. Amblyopia
D. Leukocoria
Q:
1314. A 61-year-old man comes to the clinic with a 2-day history of dyspnoea on exertion. He has a long standing
hypertension and a 30-pack-year smoking history. Physical examination is unremarkable except for rare crackles at the
bases of the lungs. Which of the following ( something like most specific most helpful in diagnosing )
A. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)
B. C-reactive protein (CRP)
C. Creatinine Kinase (CK)
D. Troponin T
Q: Patient known vase of COPD with sob crackles and lower limb oedema most appropriate lab investigation:
pro bnp
1315. doctor working in an obesity clinic took a photo in which a patient was visible in the background, and he posted it
on social media without the patient’s consent. What ethical principle did the doctor violate?
A- Justice
B- Autonomy
C- Confidentiality
1316. male newly diagnosed with diabetes, on follow up. He doesn't understand the role of lifestyle modification in DM
control, come next visit with uncontrolled DM. What to do?
A- Explain diabetes and lifestyle by simple visual Aids

B- Give him pamphlet
1317. After minor Injury painful swelling in forearm with warmth Next step?
A. MRI
B. Wide excision
C. incision and drainage
D. IV Abx
Q: A 5-year-old child presents to the emergency department with a rapidly progressive painful skin lesion. The pain is
severe and disproportionate to the physical findings. Over a short period, the lesion has increased in size with
progressive swelling and discoloration. On examination, the child is febrile and appears toxic, and the affected area
shows erythema with patches of purple discoloration and marked tenderness. What to do?
A- mri
B- surgical consultation and iv antibiotic (exactly like this)
C- topical antibiotic and analgesia
1318. A 2-year-old girl is brought to the Primary Clinic because her mother noticed she is pale. She has a history of
drinking cow’s milk and biscuit daily and didn’t eat red meat low hbg low mcv low ferritin A slight increase in
reticulocyte count around 1.8 and normal was 1.2 What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hereditary spherocytosis
B. Iron deficiency anemia
C. Anemia of chronic disease
D. Forgot but not thalassemia
1319. Patient presented with symptoms of appendicitis. Imaging: appendicitis, fecolith, appendicular abscess 1 x 15 cm
reaching the flank. What is the management?
A- open drainage
B- percutaneous drainage
C- open appendectomy with drainage
D- laparoscopic appendectomy with drainage
1320. Post op day 4 fever and + xray What is the initial?
A. IV fluids
B. Broad spectrum antibiotics

Q: 70 years old, 4 days post knee replacement No symptoms only labs HR 115 Temp 38.9 WBC 15 Xray: right lower lobe
infilteration What is the most appropriate “INITIAL” step in management? (BP NOT MENTIONED) (It Literally Said
INITIAL , NOT NEXT)
A. Irrelevant
B. IV fluid
C. Broad spectrum antibiotics
D. Deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis
1321. 59 years old patient came to ED with fever chils And worsening coough with yellow to greenish phlegm which
started 4-5 days before the presentation Patient knows case of COPD DM OA(knee) On examination respiratory distress
and crackles in all lungs felid GCS12/15 Chest x ray PA( hyperinflated lung with lower lobe infiltration and air
bronchogram ) What the most appropriate next step in management ???
Bp90/50 Hr 128 Rr24 Temp 39 His MAP is 63, Wbs 18k Neutrophil 80% Hg 10.1 Cr 190 (normal up to 115) Lactic acid
venous 4 (notmal up to 2) FBG very high ( sorry don't remember) CRP 190
A. Fluid resus
B. Vasopressor
C. Blood transfusion
D. Abx
Q: Elderly male patient (around 50-60) come to ED with 1 day history of fever and chills and worse cough ,with
yellowish green phlegm for 4 day prior known DM ,OA came with respiratory distress and 12/15 CCS Hemoglobins 10.6
Hypotension (90s/60s) High neutrophils and WBC Crackle on left lower Xray hyperinflation and air broncogram left
lower infiltration most appropriate management?
A. Vasopressor
B. Give antibiotic(s)
C. Blood transfusion
D. Fluid resuscitation
Q: Pt come to ED with 1 day fever and chills and worse cough with yellowish green phlegm for 4 day prior known DM
,OA came with respiratory distress and 12/15 CCS Hemoglobins 10.6 Hypotension High netrophils and WBC Crackle on
left lower Xray hyperinflation and air broncogram left lower infiltration What is the most appropriate NEXT STEP?
A. Vasopressor
B. Antibiotics
C. Blood transfusion
D. Fluid resuscitation

Q: 55y present to the Er 5day hx of Sob with white sputum which get yellow after a wheile was dx with pneumonia Cx
was taken Vitals BP 90/70 HR 123 SPo2 95 on 3L Temp 38 what is the most likely cause appropriate next step in
management:
1.Vasopressor
2.IV Fluid
3.ABx
4.Antipyretics
1322. Pregnant lady came in booked clinic ask how to provide best care for her self and the child ?
A- nutrition rich in iron and folic acid.
B- delay visit until 3rd trimester.
C- avoid activity ?
D- missing
1323. COPD AND HAVE ACIDOSIS WHAT IS THE INITIAL INVESTIGATION
CT WITH CONTRAST
xray chest
Cbc
Sputum culture
1324. Female with an asymptomatic 2 cm subserosal fibroid. And is afraid it might affect her future pregnancy. What
will you advise her ?
A- Reassurance
B- Avoid pregnancy
C- Myomectomy
D- Hysterectomy
1325. 22 year old female, has non tender, mobile, firm thyroid noqdule moves with tongue protrusion (She is not
complaining of anything) US: Hypo echoic and inside it microcalcifications Size: 3 cm Most appropriate next step?
A- FNA-biopsy (written like this)
B- give thyroxine then reassess in 2 months
C- discharge….
D- Thyroidectomy
Hypo-Echoic ➔ FNA If 1 cm ,

If Below 1 cm ➔ Follow Up
1326. A 70-year-old male with dementia is brought to the clinic. He appears malnourished, mumbles, and repeatedly
states that he is “not safe at home.” He lives with his son and daughter-in-law. The son says the patient is difficult to deal
with and sometimes forgets to eat. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Believe the son
B. Advise the family to place him in nursing home care
C. Report suspected elder abuse/neglect to the appropriate authority (Adult Protective Services)
D. Irrelevant
1327. Pedia (7 months maybe) Constant squint/converge
A- observe until 24 months
B- refer to ophthalmology
1328. diabetic patient presents with a foul-smelling ulcer. What is the most beneficial initial management step?
A. Debridement
B. Advanced wound care products
C. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy
D. Negative pressure wound therapy
1329. 6 months old infant brought to vaccination clinic He had huge swelling at injection site when previous DTaP given
Now he have URTI with temperature 37.9 What to do regarding Dtap vaccine ?
A) give now
B) give after 2 months
C) give after URT resolved
D) give without pertussis component
1330. 6 or 4 years old child with DM type 1 complaining of repeated hypoglycemia at night, his current medication's are
rapid acting insulin before meal and basal insulin at night what is the most appropriate modification on his current
regimen:
A- add meal at 3 AM
B- decrease the dose of basal insulin
C- decrease dose of rapid insulin
D- eat more carbs (i think)

1331. child presented with short stature, mild jaundice and he is pale with frontal bossing and maxillary and
hepatosplenomegaly and lossing weight What is the important investigating to short stature ?
A. LFT
B. HB
C. TSH hormone
D. Pituitary hormone
1332. post MI developed signs of DVT femoral pulse intact but all pulses below cannot be felt What is the most
appropriate next step?
A. Warfarin
B. Embolectomy
C. Angio
D. Thrombolytics
1333. Ptt dx with colon cancer ،the patient refuse to do any surgery , was alert oriented and understand option of
treatment and his condition , family wasn’t agree with him , after couple of weeks ptt become drows loss of
consciousness, family insisted the doctor to do the surgery?
A- Refuse follow original wish
B- Do surgery if request writing in
C- honor to do the surgery as it is family wish
1334. 40 years old famle came to follow up clinic , she was in good health 2 years old when examined Past medical hx of
Rheumatic fever 15 years ago she smokes 10 cigarettes for 15 years On current examination she have good heart rhythm
and blowing Diastolic decrescendo murmur at aortic area BP 154/56 HR 68 What the most appropriate advice for future
preventive health maintenance ?
A) annul Chest X ray
B) annul flexible sigmoidoscopy
C) immediate echo
D) prophylaxis Abx before the dental procedure
1335. 35 years old P2 pregnant lady She had previous pregnancy with IUGR with weight 1.6kg after delivery at 34 weeks
,She concerned about current pregnancy (20 weeks gestation) What is most appropriate action at this pregnancy ?
A) CTG
B) BPP
C) serial ultrasound for fetal growth
D) Doppler blood flow of umbilical cord

1336. Lung X-ray Picture for newborn I think I saw hyperinflated lung and fluid in fissure he was asking about
diagnosis I chose RDS.
1337. A 40 Years old man presented with profuse nosebleeding over 30 minutes, he has a history of recurrent nasal
congestion. He is known case of hypertension . On examination he was pale and anxious. Dx?
A. Nasal ANGIOFIBROMA
B. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia
C. Posterior epistaxis due to hypertensive vasculopathy
D. Coagulation related epistaxis
1338. 10 years old come to your clinic with Dental caries , high consumption of chocolate and sugar , and low vegetables
and fruit intake , what is the prevention point of counselling?
A- counselling Dietary
B- advice to eat less carb
C- recommended fluoride mouthwash
1339. A 34-week preterm infant was delivered using vacuum extraction (ventouse). On day 2 of life, the baby appears
pale and lethargic. On physical examination, there is a fluctuant scalp swelling that crosses suture lines and is increasing
in size. Laboratory investigations show: • Hemoglobin: Low • Platelets: Normal • PT: Normal • PTT: Normal What is the
most appropriate next step in management?
A. Observe and reassure
B. Start IV antibiotics
C. forget
D. resuscitation with packed RBC transfusion
1340. A 2-year-old boy is brought to the clinic because his parents noticed that his asymptomatic small olive shape mass
and . On examination, the right testis is not palpable in the scrotum. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Schedule surgery at age 5
B. Surgical repair now
C. No intervention
Q: A 5-month-old baby was admitted with an inability to tolerate food and non- bilious vomiting over the past 2 days.
On examination, he appears to be dehydrated. There is an olive-shaped mass palpable in the epigastric region measuring
2 × 2 cm. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
Pyloromyotomy
Balloon dilatation
Gastrojejunostomy

1341. 7y present to the Er c/o 5day hx of Sob with white sputum which get yellow after a wheile was dx with pneumonia
which was treated with ABx and get better. 2 days after start to have SOB and his symptoms get worse 85% on RA.
Vitals BP 90/70 HR 123 Temp 37 VBG PCO2 70 PO2 45 pH 7,2 (or 7,1 the unit was not the usual unit of pH ) what is the
most likely cause of his presentation:
A.Complication of Pneumonia
B. ARDS
C. Respiratory failure
D. Pulmonary Effusion
1342. 28 weeks neonate developed desaturation and bradycardia improving with stimulation What’s the underlying
cause?
A- Hypoglycaemia
B- MAS
C- Congenital airway malformation
D- immature central respiratory control
1343. Pediatric (not sure about the age) years old Patient with clear case of brucellosis. Hx of Drink raw milk from goat,
patient had pain in the knee. Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment ?
A) Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole for 6 week (no rifampicin)
B) Doxycycline + Rifampicin for 6 week
C) Ciprofloxacin for 4 week D) Amoxicillin for 2 week
Age > 8 Years ➔ Doxycycline
Age < 8 Years ➔ TMP SMX
1344. Adult Patient came with clinical picture of appendicitis, the surgeon evaluated him and explained the need for
urgent surgery (written like this) But the family is still hesitant about the surgery Just like that (No hints in the question
about patient's decision incompetence ) What is the most appropriate in caring this patient ???
A) obtain the patient consent and proceed with surgery
B) explain the surgery urgency, delay risks and expected outcomes
C) Encourage family to have a discussion
1345. 28-year-old man presents to the Emergency Department with a 2-week history of bloody diarrhea, lower
abdominal cramps, and tenesmus. Physical examination reveals abdominal distension with mild tenderness (see lab
results). Which of the following is the most appropriate investigation to establish the diagnosis?

A. Colonoscopy
B. Abdominal CT scan
C. Clostridium difficile toxins
D. Stool for culture and sensitivity
1346. A 22-year-old man presented to the Emergency Room with left leg swelling and pain that started 2 days ago and is
getting worse. It involves the whole left leg. He also complains of chest tightness and shortness of breath. Examination
reveals left lower limb pitting edema extending to the thigh (see report). ECG: Sinus tachycardia. Which of the following
is the most appropriate management at this time?
A. Aspirin
B. Clopidogrel
C. Warfarin
D. Unfractionated heparin
1347. a 13 year old boy has arthritis and when he exercise he has joint pain and CHEST PAINT. he started to take
penicillin G monthly when he will stop staking penicillin
a) after 2 years
b) after 5 years
c) until age 23
d) until age 21
1348. Pts came with s/s of hypothyroidism and the investigation showed high TSH and low T4, the dr dx as
hypothyroidism and fail to consider autoimmune thyroiditis, what is the missed part?
A. Fail to collect information from hx during consultation
B. Mis interpretation of physical examination
C. depends on the initial lab
D. Failure to consider Differential Diagnoses & Not to go systematically
1349. Qs about pediatric patient I think the case was testicular torsion Asking about golden hour for treatment
A. 6
B. 8
C. 12
D. 24
1350. 2 y.o evaluated for squint white pupil instead of red reflex how to diagnose?

A. MRI
В. СТ
C. US
D. X-ray
1351. Scenario about testicular torsion, imaging of choice:
A. X ray
B. MRI
C. Ultrasound
D. CT
1352. Scenario about baby with bronchiolitis symptoms, imaging of choice:
A. X ray
B. MRI
C. Ultrasound
D. CT
1353. TTN imaging feature?
A. Fluid in fissures
B. basal infiltration
1354. 9 y/o boy with hx of URTI came with neck tenderness, his laps: Low TSH, Low T4, high ESR/CRP I think.
Diagnosis?
A. Grave's disease
B. Subacute thyroiditis
C. Hashimoto thyroidits
D. Euthyroid sick syndrome
1355. patient presents with swelling the overlying skin was erythematous and fluctuance after a minor injury. What is
the next step in management?
A. IV antibiotics
B. Incision and drainage (I&D)
C. CBC

1356. A 46-year-old man, whose father was recently diagnosed with prostate cancer, comes for advice on screening. On
digital rectal examination, the prostate is smooth, regular, and the sulcus is palpable. What is the next best step in
management?
A) reassurance
B) PSA in 2 week (literally)
C) prostate biopsy (im not sure)
D) annually DRE
If His Father Diagnosed Before Age Of 65 ➔ B) PSA in 2 week
If His Father Diagnosed After Age Of 65 ➔ A) reassurance
If He Is Black ➔ B) PSA in 2 week (REGARDLESS To Family Hx)
Q: 42-year-old male screened for prostate cancer. Father had prostate cancer at age 73.
DRE mid? and soft. Most appropriate management?
A. Immediate biopsy
B. Reassurance
D. Repeat the DRE every year
Q: A 45-year-old man presents to the primary care clinic concerned about prostate cancer
because his father was diagnosed with prostate cancer at the age of 76. The patient is
completely asymptomatic with no urinary complaints. On digital rectal examination (DRE),
the prostate is soft, smooth, of normal size, and the medial sulcus is easily palpable. Which
of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Annual digital rectal examination
B. Transrectal ultrasound
C. Reassurance
D. Assess prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level
1357. A father come with his 3 YEARS OLD daughter that missed ( MMR, OPV, PCV, measles) due to travel and
sickness The stem was What to do at this visit? ﺖﻧﺎﻛ ﺐﯿﺗﺮﺘﻟا ﺲﻔﻨﺑو تارﺎﯿﺨﻟا ﻂﺒﻀﻟﺎﺑ
A- Give polio vaccine only at this visit
B- start a catch up plan for vaccination
C- wait until school age
D- vaccinations are useless nowadays

1358.
1359. 71-year-old man is evaluated after a recent hospitalization 10 days ago for pneumonia and was discharged with a
10-day course of appropriate antibiotics. For the past 5 days, he has had a low-grade fever and increased shortness of
breath. Pulmonary examination reveals decreased fremitus, dullness to percussion, and decreased breath sounds over
the lower third of the right hemithorax (see lab results and report). Chest radiograph: Moderate right-sided pleural
effusion. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Ceftriaxone and azithromycin
B. Chest tube and levofloxacin
C. Repeat chest radiograph in 2 weeks
D. drain and piperacillin-tazobactam
1360. A 71-year-old man is evaluated after a recent hospitalization 10 days ago for pneumonia and was discharged with
a 10-day course of appropriate antibiotics. For the past 5 days, he has had a low-grade fever and increased shortness of
breath. Pulmonary examination reveals decreased fremitus, dullness to percussion, and decreased breath sounds over
the lower third of the right hemithorax (see lab results and report). Chest radiograph: Moderate right-sided pleural
effusion. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Ceftriaxone and azithromycin
B. Chest tube and levofloxacin
C. Repeat chest radiograph in 2 weeks
D. Small-bore pleural drain and piperacillin-tazobactam
1361. 30 year old 37 week primigravida came after spontaneous rupture of membrane delivered after 5h SVD with 2
degree perianal tear , placenta was not delivered they have to remove it manually Prophylaxis antibiotics given for
what?
A. SVD
B. Rupture of membrane more than 6 hours before delivery
C. Perianal tear
D. Manual removal of placenta
1362. female Pt k/c of COPD presented with Hepatomegaly, increasing SOB, +ve shifting dullness, LL edema and Raised
JVP with Giant 'a' wave (I am not sure but I think also there is finding in heart auscultation) What is causing this
symptoms?

A- Rt HF
B- Lt HF
C- chronic liver disease
1363. 6 Y/O boy brought by his mother C/o fatigue and O/E hepatosplenomegaly labs showed WBC 2.5 Hb 8 also plt low
what is the next step to confirm the diagnosis?
A.bone marrow examination
B.blood film
2 Cell Lines Defect ➔ Bone Marrow Examination
1364. Child with enlarged lymph node ,low grade fever,hepatomegaly,wt loss best diagnostic test
Lymph biopsy
1365. Case of a woman in her 30’s presenting with shortness of breath and chest pain for one day. There is no cough or
fever, vitally stable, labs all normal except D dimer 800 high. ECG showed peaked P wave in lead Il and right deviation
with right bundle branch block. What is the most helpful investigation to be done?
A) Echo
B) V/Q scan
C) CT angiography
D) MRA
1366. Patient who is a known case of allergic rhinitis came to you and told you he can’t do his job due to the symptoms
and asked for a one week sick leave. He has mild fever and mild congestion, which can be relieved by over the counter
antihistamines. What should you do ?
A- Give 48 hours sick leave
B- no need for sick leave in mild illness not affecting work
C- Give for 1 week as he asked
D- give sick leave no matter what is the disease
1367. 10yo boy with large swelling on the left side of his neck. On examination: 10 cm in size, Soft and spongy. US FNA:
clear lymphatic fluid. What is the appropriate management?
A- Surgery
B- Observation
C- Chemotherapy
D- Radiotherapy

1368. 51 yo pt , k/c of Dm , HTN renal impermanent 3 compline on his medications, Diagnosed as afib m and the
physician decides to give him anti coagulant what the best to add ?
A- Apixaban
B- Rivaroxaban
C- Dabigtran
D- Edoxaban
Q: Female known case of A-fib it was decided she start anticoagulation. What is the most appropriate?
a-Apixaban
b-Rivaroxaban
c-Edoxaban
d-Dabigatran
1369. A 30-year-old primigravida at 6 weeks of gestation presenting to the Emergency Room with mild abdominal pains.
On examination, the abdomen is soft, non-tender. The pelvic examination reveals a normal cervix with mild cervical
motion tenderness. The patient lives 80 km away from the hospital and her husband is participating in a mission in a
different city. She was brought to the Emergency Room by her neighbour (see lab results and report). Blood pressure
110/70 mmHg Heart rate 76/min ST4b1 Respiratory rate 18/min Temperature 36.6 °C Test Result Normal Values Hb 110
130-170 g/. (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Human chorionic gonadotropin 5000 < 5 ml/mL Trans-vaginal Ultrasound:
Reveals a normal sized uterus with no clear gestational sac and a 4 cm right adnexal mass with no fetal pole. Which of
the patient characteristics favour surgical management?
A-Vital signs
B-hCG level
C-Social history
D-Ultrasound findings
1370. 45 k/c of HTN and 20 pack smoker, BMI 28 asymptomatic came for check up Best prevention for patient care?
BP:150/95 Labs HDL 1.1 LDL4.5 Cholesterol: 6.5 Triglycerides: 2.1
a-Stress test for ischemia
B
C- AntiHTN and lipid lowering therapy.
d-Lifestyle modification and follow up in 3 months
1371.

1372. 50 asthma pts in 500 child school in past 5 years what is the term describe this ?
A. period prevalence
B. Point prevalence
C. incidence rate
D. cumulative incidence
1373.
1374. A 24-year-old woman is reviewed in the Asthma Clinic. She currently uses a salbutamol inhaler 100 mcg prn combined with a
beclometasone dipropionate inhaler 400 mcg bd. Despite this, she is having frequent exacerbations of her asthma that required
frequent courses of prednisolone and hospitalization three times in the last 6 months.
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Switch beclometasone to fluticasone

B. Start to take the salbutamol regularly
C. Add long-acting B2 agonist (Salmeterol)
D. Add long-acting anticholinergic bronchodilator (Tiotropium)
1375. a 45-year-old women medically free with no personal or family history of cancer.
Asking about when to start colon cancer screening?
No need for screening for her case
Start now with colonoscopy every 5 years
Start at age of 50 with colonoscopy
Start now with annual fecal occult blood
1376. Meningitis case about child got all sings of meningitis neck stiffness, photphobia altered consciousness after URTI what would
u see in lumber puncture ( 100% this is almost all information u can get from Qs):
Elevated leukocytes predominant neutrophils high protein, low glucose
Elevated leukocytes predominant lymphocytes normal protein, normal glucose
Normal leukocytes
Elevated leukocytes predominant lymphocytes high protein, low glucose
1377. Diabetic patient come with lateral leg ulcer warm leg and there is discharge and black base and pulseless in distal
dorsalis The most likely cause is:
A- neuropathy
B- Venous
C- malignant
D- arterial
1378. 36 y/o male DM came complaining of ulcer in the medial site of the foot WOTF is the highest risk of this ulcer?
A) DM
B) Atherosclerosis
C) Venous hypertension
1379. Diabetic patient come with lateral leg ulcer warm leg and there is discharge and black base ( in my exam there was
sign of epithelization or ST.like that) and pulse is intact distal dorsalis( and another plus also intact), The most likely
cause is:
A- neuropathy
B- Venous
C- malignant
D- arterial

1380. Child old boy fall in school and injured his head , teacher took him to hospital. The doctor found 6 cm laceration
in his scalp . The boy is stable and the doctor want to suture the wound . What is most appropriate course of action?
A/ patient can give consent
B/wait for consent from one of parents
C/take consent from teacher
1381. COPD exacerbation, after viral infection and runny nose After stabilizing the patient and giving steroid
salbutamol and sending septic screen, Bp140/80s O2:70% Co2 high 9 Ph:7.2 X ray given ( showed loss of sharpness in
costophrenic angle looks overloaded ) What is the most appropriate next step in management?
- Mechanical intubation
- Non invasive negative pressure
1382. A physician recommends a drug that is more expensive. The patient asks whether a cheaper generic alternative is
available. It is revealed that the physician was paid to give a lecture at a conference sponsored by the pharmaceutical
company that manufactures the recommended drug. What is the main ethical concern?
A) The patient overestimates the effectiveness of the medication
B) The physician should have prescribed the cheaper generic version ,
C) The physician is prescribing an expensive medication without medical justification
D) The physician has NO financial conflict of interest
1383. A 20-year-old woman is brought to the Emergency Room with a 2-day history of headache, fever, photosensitivity, lethargy, and
skin eruption. Her examination reveals a drowsy woman with neck rigidity but no focal neurological findings. She has a purpuric skin
rash over her extremities (see lab results).

Which of the following is the most appropriate investigation to establish the diagnosis?
Skin biopsy
Blood culture
Lumbar puncture
Meningococcal serology
1384. A 30 years old male with 4 month epigastric pain worse after meal No family history of gastric and esophageal cancer. BMI 35
What is the next step?
A-H.pylori testing
B- Endoscopy
C-Abdominal CT
D- Barium
1385. 45 y old came with severe pain during and after defecation, along with bright red blood on toilet paper, on examination
posterior midline tear in the anal canal with increased sphincter tone.
Most appropriate initial treatment?
Colonoscopy
Topical Nitroglycerin
Surgical sphincterotomy
High dose antibiotic
1386. A patient comes to the ER with chest pain and shortness of breath. The physician initially thinks it is acid reflux and starts a
PPI. After 2 days, the patient returns to ER with severe pain and is diagnosed with myocardial infarction, and managed appropriately.
How to prevent this and provide life saving treatment earlier?
Rapidly processing the patient
Enhance patient doctor communication
1387. A 25-year-old college student came for a routine checkup. He does not have any active complaints. Examination reveals a
diastolic murmur heard at the base of the heart, which increased when the patient leaned forward in full expiration.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Aortic stenosis
Mitral regurgitation
Aortic regurgitation
Tricuspid regurgitation
1388. A 50-year-old man with ischemic heart disease and diabetes presented to the emergency with severe pneumonia and was
admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). He was treated with a course of antibiotics. Three days after admission to ICU, he develops

hypotension treated with hydration and inotropes. His liver function at the day of admission was normal, but the repeated one is
abnormal (see lab results and report).
Abdominal ultrasound: Unremarkable.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Ischemic hepatitis
ICU-related jaundice
Intravascular hemolysis
Acalculous cholecystitis
1389. A 65-year-old woman presented with a 4-month history of progressive shortness of breath, dry cough, and fatigue. She was
treated for pneumonia with 2 courses of antibiotics but showed no improvement in her symptoms. She has no significant medical
problems (see reports).
Chest X-ray (after antibiotics): A persistent dense area of consolidation at the right lower lobe.
Bronchioalveolar lavage: Atypical cells.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
Sarcoidosis
Atypical pneumonia
Allergic pneumonitis
Bronchogenic cancer
1390. A young man with HIV was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with progressive shortness of breath, cough, and fever.
Examination showed he was dyspneic and cyanosed (see report).
Chest X-ray: Signs of ARDS.
Which of the following is the most likely causative organism?
Staphylococcus aureus
Pneumocystis jirovecii
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Streptococcus pneumoniae
A 51-year-old patient presents with cough, fever, and lung consolidation. Laboratory results show neutrophilia. No other
medical comorbidities.
What is the most likely causative organism?
A) Streptococcus pneumoniae
B) Staphylococcus aureus
C) Escherichia coli
D) Listeria monocytogenes

1391. 8 or 9 yo girl sexually assaulted. Brought by parents. What to do?
-national safety something
1392. Pt post thyroid surg prez w numbness around lips and other hypocalcemia symptoms. Stated "Chovsteks sign" .
What's the cause?
A. hypocalcemia
B. hematoma
C. nerve inj
1393. No expulsion of fetal tissje. Neg fetal hr?
-missed or delayed miscarriage
1394. Q about patient prescribed ARB. What is this Med?
- irbesartan (it was the only ARB in options)
Q:
1395. Previous past expulsion at 22 wks. Painless expulsion (no mention of cervical dilatation). Now 10 wks. What to do?
✅
- Cerclage at 13 wks?
- Cerclage at 18 wks?
● History-indicated cerclage → 12–14 weeks

● Ultrasound-indicated cerclage → when cervical length <25 mm before 24 weeks.
1396. Child with wide complex tachy. Gave BP but I can't recall number but was low.
A-adenosine
B-amiodarone
C-cardioversion
1397. A study included children who watch TV and children who do not, and compared their school performance. What type of study
is this?
A- Cohort study ??
B- cross-sectional
C- Randomized Controlled Trial
1398. In a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), what treatment is recommended in addition for remission and to reduce
vascular complications?
A-Cyclophosphamide
B-Hydroxychloroquine ??
C- NSAIDS
1399. Postcoital bleeding irregular cycle no abdominal masses, next ?
pap
vaginal us
- Postcoital bleeding عﺎﻣﺟﻟا دﻌﺑ ﺎﻣ فﯾزﻧ is a red flag for cervical pathology, especially Cervical Cancer or cervical dysplasia.The first
step in evaluation is screening the cervix with a Papanicolaou Test.
1400. Pregnant lady in the last trimester Dx with peripartum cardiomyopathy what to give
A. Losartan
B. Lisinopril
✅
C. Hydralazine
D. Methyldopa
- Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a form of systolic heart failure occurring in the last month of pregnancy or within 5 months postpartum.
- Management during pregnancy follows heart failure treatment that is safe in pregnancy.
Drugs safe in pregnancy:
- Diuretics (e.g., furosemide) for pulmonary congestion
- Beta-blockers
- Vasodilators like hydralazine
- Nitrates

Drugs contraindicated in pregnancy:
ACE inhibitors and ARBs are teratogenic.
A. Losartan ARB – contraindicated
B. Lisinopril ACE inhibitor – contraindicated
Hydralazine :
- Safe vasodilator in prgnancy
- Reduces afterload, improving cardiac output in heart failure
Methyldopa :
- Used for gestational hypertension
- Not used for heart failure management
In heart failure (including peripartum cardiomyopathy):
- Avoid ACEI / ARB
- Use hydralazine + nitrates
1401. during school health screening primary health doctor refeered student to another doctor for eye glass as he has
refractory error , what level of prevention is this .
A. Primary
B. Secondary
C. Tertiary
1402. A woman presents with vaginal dryness, fatigue, excessive sweating, and secondary amenorrhea. What is the first
test should perform?
A. FSH
B. Thyroid tests
C. Pregnancy test
D. Estrogen level
1403. patient in hypovolemic shock, what do you monitor?
A. BP
B. Urine output ??
C. Heart rate
In Hypovolemic shock, the most reliable indicator of adequate tissue perfusion and resuscitation is urine output.
1404. Management of asymptomatic tubal ectopic pregnancy
A. Methotrexate
B. Laparoscopy

C. Conservative
1405. Management of simple UTI in first trimester
1406. pedo patient presented with abdominal pain and bloody stool what is the most likely cause
A. Rota virus
B. Norovirus
C. Cryptosporidium
D. C.Jejuni
1407. 72 yrs old mal retired free medical hx experience misbalance and i think fall " hx of osteoarthritis in his knee: he
want to prevent fall and strengthen his muscle Advice him which type of exercise ?
A. High speed walk Running
B. Low speed walk with swimming aerobic

1408. Post Total thyroidectomy (4 days it) c/o of stridor and cough and sob upon inspection the nerve was damaged or
stuck I don’t recall much whats the management
Tracheostomy
Laryngoscopy
Cricothyroidectomy
Fixing the laryngeal nerve
If asking about initial/next Laryngoscopy to confirm the diagnosis of recurrent LN injury.
If asking about Definitive Tracheostomy
1409. pt complains of bulge in his anus with fever dont remember
Abscess
Thrombosed pile
1410. Pregnant at 37 weeks of gestation undergoes an ultrasound that reveals a fundal height corresponding to 35 weeks,
US shows absent end-diastolic flow on umbilical artery Doppler. What is the appropriate next step in management?
A. Induction of labor
B. Immediate delivery by caesarean section
C. Repeat Doppler ultrasound in 1 week
1411. A patient with chronic hepatitis C presents with ascites and abdominal pain. Ascitic fluid analysis shows a
neutrophil count of 300 cells/mm³. What is the most appropriate management?
A- Systemic antibiotics
B- Steroids
C- Treat hepatitis C

D- Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS)
1412. A new study was conducted to investigate the effect of HIV on mortality.The target group was recruited from
hospitals and followed for 10 years to compare mortality between negative and positive HIV patients. What does ethics
impose on this research?
A- A considerable profit
B- Frequent appearances on social media
C- To have in its center the rights of the target group
D- To have in its center the achievement of the hypothesis
1413. There is a spread of infection among the residents. Out of 200 residents, 40 show symptoms. What is the definition
of a cumulative prevalence?
A- 15%
B- 20%
C- 25%
D- 10%
1414. A child presents with foul-smelling breath, nasal congestion, and facial tenderness. The symptoms have worsened
after 14 days, despite multiple courses of antibiotics.What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Sinus X-ray
B. Antibiotic therapy
C. Nasal endoscopy
1415. Researchers want to see the relation between pediatric groups and obesity They mentioned a lot of objectives for
the research and multiple criteria to diagnose more than 3 What is the best test for IBP strategy?
A. T test
B. Linear regression
C. Logistic regression
D. Multinomial
Q: Research 2 pediatric groups there are many variables the Researcher want to see the relation between these variables
and outcome of of the waight in the last 5 years across the all age and gender
A. T test
B. Linear regression
C. Logistic regression

D. Multinomial
Answer: B
1416. Old patient diabetic, admitted to ICU with pneumonia and sepsis. What is the mostappropriate empiric therapy in
addition to azithromycin?
A. Moxifloxacin
B. Vancomycin
C. Ceftriaxone
1417. Old in 50s or 60s KC of HTN and DM, signs of dehydration Came complaining of severe vomiting and diarrhea,a
WEEK ago she had an appointment with her primary physician Cr was 60, now her creatinine is 160 The cause of
kidney injuryUrine sodium 60 Urine osmolality 220 Specific gravity 900 BUN 11Cr before week was 60 and after week
160
A. Pre renal azotemia
Details: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/39512
ﮫﺗﺮﻛﺬﺗ لاﺆﺳ
Old in 50s or 60s KC of HTN and DM , Came complaining of severe vomiting and diarrhea ,a WEEK ago she had an
appointment with her primary physian Cr was 60 , now her creatinine is 160 ..The cause of kidney injury
A. Pre renal azotemia
B . Acute on chronic kidney injury
C. Acute tubular necrosis
ـﻟا ﺔﻧﺎﻣﻸﻟcase ﻰﻄﻋاو فﺎﻔﺟ ﺎھﺪﻨﻋ ﮫﻧا ﺺﺨﻠﻤﻟا ﺲﺑ ، ﺎھﺮﺼﺘﺧا ﺖﻟوﺎﺣو ﺔﻠﯾﻮط ﺖﻧﺎﻛ labs ةﺮﯿﺜﻛ
ﺎﮭﻨﻣ ةﺪﻛﺄﺘﻣ هﺬھ تارﺎﯿﺧ ﺔﺛﻼﺜﻟا
A 28-year-old man who recently joined military service and underwent excessive military
training presents to the Emergency Department with lightheadedness on standing and

fatigue. Physical examination reveals postural hypotension, otherwise unremarkable. Urine
osmolality is elevated >500 mOsm/kg. What is the most likely etiology for his acute kidney
injury?
A. Pre-renal azotemia
B. Acute interstitial nephritis
C. Acute glomerulonephritis
D. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN)
Answer: A
1418. A 16-year-old man presented to the Outpatient Department complaining of diarrhea for 3 years. He was passing
3-4 large volumes of stool per day, which was foul smelling and contained undigested food but no blood or mucus. He
was also complaining of postprandial bloating and easy fatigability.On examination, he looked pale and has no
secondary sexual characteristics BMI 14 kg/m2Test Result Normal ValuesHb 10 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L
(Female)MCV 70 80- 95Platelets count 433 150-400 x 109/LAlanine aminotransferase 90 5-40 IU/LAspartate
aminotransferase 60 12-40 IU/L ESR 12 2-10 mm/h (Male) 3-15 mm/h (Female)Which of the following is the most
appropriate diagnostic test?
A. Stool for fat content
B. Barium follow through
C. Lactose hydrogen breath test
D. IgA antendomysial antibodies
1419. A Child with Kawasaki disease, already received IVIG and IV aspirin, his symptoms are still not improving, what
will you do next?\
IV methylprednisolone
Second dose of IVIG
Infliximab
Q: Child diagnosed with kawasaki disease, started on High dose Aspirin and IVIG, after 3 days, child was not
responding, there was left coronary artery dilation. What is most appropriate treatment in this case?
A- IV methylprednisolone
B- Low dose Aspirin
C-Oral oseltamivir

1420.
1421. A 36-year-old patient presented with a neck mass that has been present for 3 years. Physical examination
confirmed a palpable left thyroid gland; with no palpable cervical lymph nodes. Neck Ultrasound: Left thyroid nodule
occupying most of the left lobe, measures 3.4 x 3.8 cm and has mixed cystic and solid components, the right lobe is
normal. Fine Needle Aspiration: Finding is coded as Bethesda IV (suspicious for follicular neoplasm). Which of the
following is the most appropriate management?
A. Thyroid scan
B. Total thyroidectomy

C. Left hemithyroidectomy
D. Repeat fine needle aspiration
TBH I don’t remember if the recall was this GB/MG one but what I’m 100% sure of is that it said Bethesda IV and
asked for managemen
1422. A 40-year-old man presented to the emergency department with fever, severe headache, neck stiffness, and
photophobia for two days. On physical examination, the physician asked the patient to flex his neck forward. This
maneuver caused involuntary flexion of the patient's hips and knees. Which of the following clinical signs is
demonstrated in this patient?
A. Kernig sign
B. Babinski sign
C. Brudzinski sign
D. Romberg sign
1423. A 55-year-old woman presents with a groin swelling that appears when she stands and disappears when lying
down. On examination, the swelling is located below and lateral to the Pubic Tubercle. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Direct Inguinal Hernia
B. Indirect Inguinal Hernia
C. Femoral Hernia
D. Obturator Hernia
1424. How long should H. pylori triple therapy be used:
7-14d
3 months
4 weeks
1425. Baby had a delayed separation of his umbilical cords and start bleeding from the site Labs of coagulation normal
PT, PTT and platelets count and function normal. There is delay in clot Time only. Which factors is affected ? I Think
Clot Lysis Time Was 5 Seconds (I Don’t Care , I Choose F-13 Anyway As All Other Options Are Wrong)
A- Factor Vlll deficiency
B- Von willebrand disease
✅
C- Factor Xlll deficiency
D- Thrombocytopenia
1426. 47 years old Female came to preventive clinic, no family history, medical history positive for HTN for 5 years, BMI
37 what is the appropriate screening test:

A-Fecal occult blood
B-Fasting blood glucose
C-pap smear
D-lung
Q: 47 years old female sexually active diagnosed with HTN for 5 years on medications, BMI 37. What is the highest
recommended screening?
A. CT chest
B. Pap smear
C. Annual fecal blood
D. Random blood glucose
1427. A patient with KC of heart disease has small lesion on ear pinna of 2 months duration.
1428. Female patient with ectopic pregnancy with first heg reading of 3000 After that 3100 after that 2900 which of the
following recommended management
A-surgery
B-2nd dose of methotrexate
C-observe and continue monitoring
1429. A 30-year-old man is planning to travel to a rural area in sub-Saharan Africa for 2 weeks. The area is endemic for
malaria. He asks about the best preventive measure before traveling. Which of the following is the most appropriate
advice?
A.Reassure him that no prophylaxis is needed

B.Give yellow fever vaccine and antimalarial chemoprophylaxis
C.Use topical mosquito repellent only
1430. ethics suicide want discharge from hospital
1431. Acute Limb ischemia what is the risk for it?
A. Smoking
B. history of claudication
1432.
1433. Patient 2 months claudication pain, ABI was 0.3 CTA showed 3cm occlusion in popliteal artery, what’s the most
app step
A- Amputation
B- Thromboembolectomy
C- Endovascular stenting
D- Thrombolysis
1434.

1435. Persistent HTN , FH OF STROKE , potassium 3,2 , muscle proximal 4/5 what test to reach diagnosis ? Urine cortisol 24 h
Aldosterone renin ratio.
There Was No Diabetes , Nor Obesity
A. She is at significant risk of endometrial cancer
B. She is at increased risk for multiple gestation
C. She is at increased risk of ovarian cancer
D. She is at significant risk of osteoporosis
1436. Newborn covered with meconum but he is vigorous, cry and good muscle tone What is most appropriate managment?
Routine care with close monitoring
Immediate endotracheal suction before stimulation
1437. Newborn with respiratory distress covered with meconum he was on conventional ventilation then high flow ventilation what
most effective managment for him ?
Broad spectrum antibiotic
Inhaled nitric oxide
Fluid resuscitation
Indomethacin
1438. A 29-year-old G4 P3003 at 12 weeks’ gestation. Her current pregnancy has been uneventful.
One week ago she has noticed swelling of her ankles and feet (see lab results).
Blood pressure 150/95 mmHg
Heart rate 84 /minute
Temperature 36.9°C
Respiratory Rate 15 ‘minute
Test Result Normal Values
Hb 11.9 120-158 g/L
Creatinine 65 58-145 pmol/L
Uric acid 210 140-360 pmol/L
Urine analysis Trace protein
Which of the following is the most appropriate therapy?

A. Methyldopa
B. Atenolol
C. Captopril
D. Losartan
1439. A patient develops arthritis after Clostridioides difficile infection. What is the most likely explanation?
A. Reactive arthritis
B. Septic arthritis
1440. Elderly women known DM HTN has a history of IHD years before. Came complaining of increasing shortness of breath,
increased when she lay down. No chest pain, no other complains. Vitals normal. (The question came with 2 clear pictures that I am
100% sure about)
First picture ECG showing ST-elevation in leads II, I, AvF, V5 and V6 only.
The second picture chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema.
What is the cause of this patient complaint?
A. Acute coronary disease
B. Pulmonary edema
C. Pulmonary Embolism
D. Decompensated HF
1441.
1442. ectopic pregnancy methotrexate after reduce from1000to 300 what next?

Success And Drop By >15% ==> Monitor B-hCG After 1 Week
1443.
1444. Mile stone draw straight line and throw ball
1445. vaccine of 18 months
1446. Patient has pneumonia and need EXecessivr fluid and norepinephrine to maintain normal BP is it sepsis sirs
septicemia septic shock???
1447. Diverticulitis with fluid collection about 20/13 cm what to do next??
A. Percutaneous drain.

Q: 65 yo male came complaining with sudden lower fossa pain that is increasing Labs : Wbc 23 Hb: normal CT shows
diverticulitis + collection What is the initial and most appropriate?
Q: Diverticulosis with collection Management
Laparoscopy
Open laparotomy
percutaneous drainage
4 cm ➔ Drain
3 cm ➔ Conservative (If There Is Fever [OR] SIRS , Then Choose IV Abx Over Conservative)
Q: Patient with acute diverticulitis Fluid collection What is you next step
A. Iv fluid antibiotic
B. Observation
C. Colectomy
D. Colonoscopy
1448. baby with recurrent migraine for 2 weak daily what to give given initial treatment with no effect what next?
Ibuprophen
trcycic Antidepressant
ppi
1449. Schizophrenia treatment?
Clozapine
1450. Young with 12 years, age bloody diarrhea colonoscopy negative what next?
1451. neck trauma how to CONFIRM IT ?
???

1452. Celiac case with dermatitis herpetiformis
1453. Patient fall from height ﺔﻓﺎﺴﻣ ﺔﯿﻟﺎﻋ ﺪﯿﯾﺪﺷ how to intubate it????/secure airway
1454. child was hit by a car how to assess consciousness:
A. GCS
B. oriented to time place person
C. he can mention what was happen exactly
1455. Pt with massive hematemesis all are normal except WBS and Blood urea nitrogen is high diagnosis ?
A. erosive gastritis
B. PUD
C. Mallory-Weiss Syndrome
D. esophageal varices
1456. A 35-year-old man is evaluated during a follow-up visit. He is a known case of rheumatoid arthritis that is well
controlled with prednisone 15 mg and hydroxychloroquine 400 mg daily. His physical examinations are unremarkable
(see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate management?

A. Taper prednisone and start methotrexate
B. Taper prednisone and start ibuprofen
C. Taper prednisone and start cyclosporine
D. Continue his treatment
Q: A 30-year-old woman with stable systemic lupus erythematosus presents to the clinic with
active polyarthritis for 1 week.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Prednisolone and methotrexate
B. Prednisolone and sulfasalazine
C. Prednisolone and cyclophosphamide
D. Prednisolone and mycophenolate mofetil
Answer: A (GB)
1457. 20 year old woman with no previous medical illnesses presented with a 7 day history of increasing jaundice,
nausea, vomiting and right sided upper abdominal pain (see lab results). Which of the following tests has the greatest
prognostic value?
Test Result Normal Values Total bilirubin 26 3.5-16.5 umol/l Aspartate aminotransferase 700 12-40 IU/L Alanine
aminotransferase 1650 5-40 IU/L Alkaline phosphatase 126 39-127 IU/l
A. Bilirubin
B. Albumin
C. Prothrombin time
D. Alanine aminotransferase
1458. Which of the following diagnostic tools is the best option for screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhotic
patients?
A. Liver function test
B. Alpha fetoprotein
C. Ultrasound abdomen
D. Triphasic CT scan of liver

1459. 62-year-old woman with a long standing history of pruritus and fatigue presented to the clinic with a 2-months
history of jaundice and abdominal swelling. On examination, scratch marks seen. She was jaundiced with clubbing of
her fingers. Abdominal examination revealed splenomegaly with ascites (see lab results and report). Which of the
following is the most appropriate next step?
Test Result / Normal Values: RBC 4 / 4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female) Hb 11/ 130-170 g/L (Male)
120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count 102 / 150-400 x 109/L WBC 3 / 4.5-10.5 x 109/L INR 1.5 / 0.8-1.2 Alkaline
phosphatase 170 / 39-127 IU/L Alanine aminotransferase 78 / 5-40 IU/L Aspartate aminotransferase 112 / 12-40 IU/L US
Abdomen: Showed coarse liver with 3 cm focal lesion at rt lobe.
A. Alpha- fetoprotein
B. Biopsy for the lesion
C. Doppler ultrasound of liver
D. Triphasic CT scan of the abdomen
1460. baby 2 y with diarrhea. Mother concerned about her brother 1y/o How to prevent?
A. Wash hand with soap
B. Prophylactic probiotics
1461. Female after 24 h of rupture of membrane she get SV birth What is best PREVENTION for pelvic infection
A. Clinda + genta
B. Amoxicillin + metronidazole
C. Vanco
1462. Patient with 3 day hx of colectomy present with fever and tenderness mainly LLQ and have abdominal distension
+ absent bowel sound Asking about most initial study
1- Abd X Ray
2- CBC + lactate
3- re exploitation
1463. A 59-year-old woman undergoes a hysteroscopy secondary to her complain of abnormal uterine: bleeding for the
last couple of months (see image). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? Same as Joes recalls US pic
A. Adenomyosis
B. Endometriosis
C. Subserosal filbroid

D. Endometrial polyps
1464. A patient with meningitis has cerebrospinal fluid findings of SLIGHTLY low glucose and high lymphocytes And
high Protein. What is the most appropriate treatment? They Literally Wrote “SLIGHTLY Low Glucose” , No
Encephalitis Symptoms , Just Meningitis
A. Acyclovir
B. Steroid
C. Meropenem
D. Ceftriaxone and vancomycin
1465. IV drug user presents with S&S of meningitis. CSF analysis show: glucose = 250 ( Normal 250-500 ) Blood glucose
<0.4 lymphocytic predominance. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Viral meningitis
B. Tuberculous meningitis ??
C. Bacterial meningitis
D. Fungal meningitis (Aseptic Meningitis In Other Recalls)
Q: 60-year-old man from India presented to the Emergency Department with headache and low- grade fever for
3-weeks. The
headache became worse over the last 2-days and was associated with voming. In the emergency room, he developed
generalized seizures (see lab results and reports),
Test Result Normal Values
WBC 19 4.5-10.5 x 109/L
Pressure 280 200-250 mmH20 (Male)
300-400 mmH20 (Female)
Cells 380 0-3 /ML
Total protein (Men) 3 0.22-0.33 g/L

Glucose 1.2 2.50-3.89 mmol/L
CSF differenal WBC count: 73% lymphocytes and 13 % neutrophils.
CSF culture: Pending.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Neurocyscercosis
B. Tuberculous meningis
C. Bacterial meningis
D. Viral meningis
Answer: B. Tuberculous meningis (MEDGARD)
1466. IV drug user presents with S&S of meningitis. CSF analysis show: glucose = 250 ( Normal 250-500 )
Blood glucose >0.4
lymphocytic predominance. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Viral meningitis ??
B. Tuberculous meningitis ??
C. Bacterial meningitis
D. Aseptic Meningitis ??
Summary Of CSF Analysis:
PMN + CSF:Serum Glucose Ratio <0.4 Bacterial
Lymphocyte + CSF:Serum Glucose Ratio > 0.6 - Viral
Lymphocyte + CSF:Serum Glucose Ratio < 0.4 TB
Fungi:
Cryptococcal: Lymphocyte + CSF:Serum Glucose Ratio >0.6
Non-Cryptococcal: Polymorpho-Nuclear (PMN) + CSF:Glucose Ratio <0.4

1467. Pt has meningitis, lymphocytes predominance and glu 2.5 (lower normal) w low serum glu, dx?
A) bacterial
B) viral
C) Aseptic
D) TB
1468. A patient presents with signs & symptoms of meningitis. Lumbar puncture findings are as follows: CSF glucose: 5
mmol/L CSF protein: 700 mg/L (reference range: 100–400 mg/L) Predominant lymphocytes Which of the following is
the most appropriate treatment for the specific causative organism?
A. Intravenous Ceftriaxone and Vancomycin
B. Intravenous Methylprednisolone
C. Intravenous Antifungal therapy
D. Intravenous Acyclovir
1469. A 5-week-old infant is brought by the mother after having sudden jerky movements involving upper and lower
limbs. The infant was managed acutely with IV calcium. He is now stable and doing well. What is the most appropriate
advice?
A. Reassure
B. Give Vitamin D supplementation
C. Avoid sun exposure
1470. A pregnant woman presents with an enlarged goiter. Laboratory tests show elevated TSH. She is concerned about
her baby’s intelligence. What is the most appropriate management?
• Thyroxine
• Carbimazole
• Iodine treatment
• Surgical removal
1471. A woman with hypertension is found to have a renal bruit on physical examination. What is the most appropriate
next investigation?
A. CT
B. RENAL US
C. MRI
D. Plain X-ray
Initial , Next ➔ US Best

Most Appropriate , Confirmatory ➔ CT
Q: Case about hypertension and Renal bruit. Most appropriate imaging to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Renal US
B. Renal CT
C. IV pyelogram
Answer: B
1472. 51 year old female k/c of breast cancer on ..(medication for breast cancer) complaining of Abnormal uterine
bleeding for…(forgot the duration), she did uterine biopsy and came back inadequate, What is the most appropriate
next step in management? (100% sure of the stem and the question)
A- Reassurance
B- hysteroscopy and biopsy
C- hysterectomy
D- pelvic US (not sure)
1473. A 19-year-old girl has regular periods but experiences pain during the first two days of menstruation, or starting
two days before her period. NSAIDs are ineffective. What is the next best treatment?
Dysmenorrhea: NSAID > OCP (No Place For Paracetamol)
Menorrhagia: OCP > NSAID
1474. A 28-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Department with 18-hour history of severe epigastric pain
associated with vomiting. She is known to have multiple small gallstones. Physical examination confirmed upper
abdominal tenderness (see lab results). Test Result Normal Values: WBC 13.4 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Alkaline phosphatase 289
39-117 IU/L Amylase 488 24-151 IU/L Direct bilirubin 19 1.5-6.5 mol/L Total bilirubin 34 3.5-16.5 mol/L Which of the
following is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Abdominal ultrasound
B. Intravenous crystalloid infusion
C. Intravenous broad spectrum an7bio7cs
D. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography

1475. Child has severe pain in lower abdomen with guarding and the pain is in the groin area, what is the next
appropriate step ?
A. Genital exam
B. Ct
AboSarah: Next full Hx and Physical examination.
1476. Newborn in 3rd percentile, family poor was diluting formula milk, what is next most appropriate?
A. Hospitalization
B. High calorie formula
C. Advice family how to make formula
1477. Newborn with meconium aspiration syndrome has hypoxia and severe respiratory distress. What is the most
appropriate management?
A. Supplemental oxygen + NIVPP
B. Intubation and mechanical ventilation if needed
1478. 60-year-old man with a history of osteoarthritis of the left knee presents with chest pain on exertion that is relieved
by rest. Resting ECG and cardiac enzymes are normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in
evaluation?
A- Exercise stress ECG
B- Echocardiogram
C- CT coronary angiography
D- Dobutamine stress echocardiogram
1479. Young woman G maybe6, has abdominal pain and menorrhagia, she has regular periods every 20 days and lasts 5
days. She has myectomy 12 years ago and 3 curttege and dilation for abortion. Uterus is bulky and shows no adnexal
mass What is the diagnosis
A. Adenomyosis
B. Endometriosis
C. Fibroids

Q: A 42-year-old P4+2 presented with severe, progressive secondary dysmenorrhea and menorrhagia. Pelvic
examination
demonstrated a tender, diffusely enlarged uterus (see report).
Endometrial biopsy: Normal endometrium.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Endometritis
B. Endometriosis
C. Adenomyosis
D. Uterine sarcoma
Answer: C. Adenomyosis (GB)
1480. A 45-year-old P5+3 presented to the clinic complaining of abnormal uterine bleeding for the last 3 months, the
menstrual period is regular every 30 days and lasts for 5 days, associated with blood clots and pain that is not relieved by
simple analgesia. The patient had previously undergone myomectomy 12 years back and 3 surgical evacuation for
incomplete miscarriage. On examination, the uterus was not palpable but on pelvic examination, the uterus was found to
be bulky and tender with no adnexal mass. BMI 40 kg/m2 Which of the following is the most likely explanation for this
patient's presentation?
A. Adenomyosis
B. Endometriosis
C. Uterine fibroid
D. Endometrial cancer
1481. young woman has abnormal uterine bleeding and menorrhagia. That's it US: normal endometrium What is the
diagnosis
A. Endometriosis
B. Adenomyosis
C. Fibroids
1482. foot heart shape in xray, Most appropriate next investigation
Ct angio
Cardiac catheterization
Open heart surgery
1483. Ecg atrial flutter absent p waves and regular and tachycardia ب بﺎﺼﻣ نا ﺲﯿﻜﻟاو اﻮﻟﺎﻗ fibrillation atrialنﺎﻛ ﺶﯾا ﺮﻛذا ﺎﻣو
هﺪﻨﻋ ﮫﻟﺎﺧ ﻲﻟا ﺐﺒﺴﻟا ﺶﯾا اﻮﻟﺎﺴﻓ ضﺮﻣ ﻦﻣ هﺪﻨﻋ tachycardia

1484. If patient comes with celiac disease with symptoms of diarrhea weight loss (more sx) also has arthritis or join pain
and i don't think he was on medications he was in his 20's 30's they mentioned that they did a test and + Tissue
transgutinmase also RF was a bit high (n=500 something) and it was 600 something What is the most appropriate
management?
Gluten free diet
Steroids
Methotrexate
Q: 14-year-old male, diarrhea for 3 months, associated with abdominal bloating and loss of subcutaneous fat.
What is the best treatment?
A. Hydrolyzed diet
B. Gluten free diet
C. High caloric diet
D. Fat free diet
" نﺎﻛ هﺎﻌﻣ ةرﻮﺻgrowth chart"
Answer: B. Gluten free diet
1485. Ethical question about a resident who works at the hospital it was oncall and there were about to perform a
surgery and the resident didn't apply proper sterile methods before putting the catheter. The intern spoke out and said '
can you stop/ something like this I think we have a problem' I can't remember if they mentioned she was loud and
everyone that was in the operating room heard something like that What type of communication did the intern use?
Closed loop communication
Call out
Call back

1486.
1487.
1488.
1489.

1490. Baby (2 months old ) was diagnosed with congenital heart disease came to the ER with bluish
discoloration , the mother said he was crying what you will do?
A. immediate heart surgery
B. Reexamine after baby calmed
C. go home
D. refer to another doctor
1491.7 year old child fully vaccinated fall in the park presented with clean and small wound. What to do?
A. Reassurance
B. Tetanus vaccine
C. Tetanus immunolobulin
D. نوﯾﻣﻻاو نﯾﺳﻛﺎﻔﻟا نﯾﻧﺛﻻا نﺎﻛ دﻘﺗﻋا
1492.Painless vaginal bleeding @35 weeks, patient is stable with reassuring ctg what is the next step?
Induction of labor
C-section @37 weeks
C-section + Dexa
1493. Patient presented with RLQ pain, appendectomy performed, she had an infection post-op and needed to stay longer. A nurse
who knows her family check the system and knew the details about the operation and infection source. The patient discovered and
filled a complaint about that. What is the best way to deal with what happened?
A-Apologize to the patient
B- Train the staff about how patient confidently and not to breech the privacy
C- don’t do anything
D- disciplinary action to the nurse

1494. A 23-year-old pregnant woman presented with frequency and dysuria for 5 days (see lab
result), Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg, Heart rate 76 /min, Temperature 37.6 °C Test
Result Normal Values Leukocytes 30 0 -3 per high power field Which of the following is
the best treatment option?
A. Flucioxacillin
B. Amoxicillin/culvulinate
C. Ciprofloxacin
D. Nitrofuranion
1495. A researcher is conducting a clinical trial on a new drug for glycemic control in diabetic
patients. One of the participants develops severe hypoglycemia, but the researcher is
concerned that stopping the drug might cause the study to fail. What is the most
appropriate action?
A. Stop the drug for the patient’s safety
B. Continue the drug to ensure the study’s success
C. Modify the study protocol to fit this patient
D. Discuss with the research team before taking any action
1496. 25 yrs female with atypical complex hyperplasia. What is the best mx?
A- Hysterectomy
B-Endometrial ablation
C- Progesterone
D-Tamoxifen

Q: A 25-year-old woman presented with abnormal uterine bleeding, underwent an endometrial biopsy (see
report).
Endometrial biopsy: Atypical complex hyperplasia.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Tamoxifen
B. Hysterectomy
C. Oral progesterone
D. Endometrial ablation
Answer: C. Oral progesterone
1497. Patient is evaluated for overload picture (crackles, LL pitting edema) among other S&S. Denied any history of trauma OE: raised
jvp, distant heart sound, Vitally hypotensive: 90/70 Hidden GB Labs Xr: wide cardiac silhouette ECG: high voltage Which area of heart
is affected:
Myocardium
Pericardium
Coronary artery's
Endocardium

1498. pregnant with large genital wart, best ttt:
A, cryotherapy
B electrotherapy
C podophylline risen
D fluconazole
1499. 4 MONTH CHILD : DELAYED MOTOR hypotonia + reduced reflexed + وﻧا لاantigravity muscles weak و لاCK NORMAL MYOPATHIC
PATTERN ON
CONGENITAL MYOPATHY
SPINAL MUSCULAR ATROPHY
CONGENITAL MUSCULAR ATROPHY
1500.
1501. The government did a health campaign to encourage the consumption of low fat products and a low salt intake in order to
decrease risk factors of hypertension and diabetes. What is the type of prevention is this?
A. Primordial prevention
B. Primary prevention
C. Secondary prevention
D. Tertiary prevention
1502. 34-year-old man patient a known case of ulcerative colitis on azathioprine 100mg/day and tapering dose of steroid presented
to the clinic with 6-7 bloody bowel motions, lower abdomen pain and low grade fever. On abdominal examination, there is mild
tenderness at left lower abdomen. Stool culture was negative. Stool for colostrum difficile toxins was positive (see lab results). Blood

pressure 110/70 mmH, Heart rate 100/min, Temperature 38.4 °C, Oxygen saturation 95% Test Result Normal Values RBC 5 4.7-6.1 x
1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female) Hb 11 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count 456 150-400 x 109/L WBC
16 4.5-10.5 x 109/L ESR 67 2-10 mm/h (Male) 3-15 mm/h (Female) Albumin 29 34-56 g/L Which of the following is the most
appropriate treatment?
Oral tinidazole
IV cefuroxime
Oral vancomycin
IV metronidazole
1503. A patient with A-fib on warfarin and is taking this medicine to prevent from stroke, he presented with nosebleed and bruises,
recently took herbal supplements. His INR is 4 (Normally maximum 1.2) What to do?
A. Stop warfarin
B. Switch from warfarin to aspirin
C. Advice to stop herbal and recheck INR
1504. A 60-year-old man is evaluated in the clinic because of a 6-month history of exertional shortness of breath. Clinical
examination reveals a positive Corrigan's pulse, early diastolic murmur at the left upper sternal border, and bilateral fine basal
crepitations (see report). Echocardiogram: Severe aortic regurgitation and ejection fraction of 40%. Which of the following is the most
appropriate treatment?
Diuretics
Calcium channel blockers
Surgical valve replacement (AVR)
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
1505. A 68-year-old man with a history of COPD presents to the Emergency Department with worsening shortness of breath,
productive cough, and confusion. On examination, he is using accessory muscles to breathe, has a respiratory rate of 32/min, and his
SpO₂ is 85% on room air. Arterial blood gas shows pH 7.28, PaCO₂ 65 mmHg, PaO₂ 55 mmHg Which of the following findings
indicates that this COPD exacerbation is severe and requires urgent intervention?
A) Productive cough
B) SpO₂ 92%
C) Decreased level of consciousness
D) Mild wheezing
1506. Folic acid dose for pregnant k/C of sickle cell disease stable on remission state lady?
A- 0.2 mg
B- 0.8 mg
C- 1.4 mg
D- 2.4 mg
1507. Young patient with high BP, also his 2 sisters and his parents also hypertensive No proteinurea What ttt to start ?

Diuretics
Beta blockers
ACEI
Alpha blocker
1508. 6 Yrs old boy with day and night enuresis his mother mentioned he of chronic constipation exam is normal apart from sacral
dimples What should you do?
A. Sacro-lumbar MRI
B. Reassure
C. Urine Analysis & Culture
1509. I had this 2 Q today I tried to memorise as much as I can A 6 month infant with vertical transmission of HIV and was started on
antiretroviral therapy and developmentally doing good Which of the following vaccines needed to be considered with him :
1-Inactivated influenza vaccine
2-Human papilloma virus
3-Hepatitis B
4-Measles, rubella, mumps
1510. 4 months old Came with mild flu symptoms T37.1 mother asking about vaccinations ?
A- OPV & live...
B- postponed vaccinations
C- Give Dtap
D- Give varicella
1511. A 62-year-old man known diabetes and hypertension presents with 4-hour history of sudden left leg pain, he had a history of
left leg pain after walking 200 meters that make him stop and is relieved by rest. He is on oral hypoglycemic and statin but not
compliant to medication and has been smoking for the last 40 years. Pulse examination on the left reveals present femoral absent
popliteal and distal, his right leg revealed intact femoral and popliteal but diminished distal pulses (see lab results and report). Blood
pressure 110/70 mmH Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 95% Test Result Normal Values Random
Glucose 10 3.9-5.5 mmol/L HA1C 8 4.7-5.6% ECG: Normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate investigation?
**A. CT angiogram
B. Vascular ultrasound
C. Conventional angiogram
D. Magnetic resonant angiogram
1512. A 40-year old healthy woman presents to Emergency Room with a 4-hour history of sudden onset right lower limb pain. Her
examination reveals intact femoral pulse but absent distal pulses, diminished sensory exam with an altered motor exam. Her labs are
normal (see report). Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 95 /min Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen
saturation 98% ECG: Shows atrial fibrillation. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
**A. Femoral embolectomy

B. Above knee amputation
C. Catheter-directed thrombolysis
D. Heparinization and observation
1513. A 40-year old healthy woman presents to Emergency Room with a 4-hour history of sudden onset right lower limb pain. Her
examination reveals intact femoral pulse but absent distal pulses, diminished sensory exam with an altered motor exam, Her labs are
normal (see report). Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 95 /min Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.6 °С Oxygen
saturation 98% ECG: Shows atrial fibrillation. Which of the following is the most appropriate investigation?
A. CT angiogram
B. Vascular ultrasound
C. Conventional angiogram
**D. Embolectomy with no imaging
1514. A 62-year-old man known case of DM HT presents with 4-hour history of sudden left leg pain, the patient had a history of left
leg pain after walking 200 meters that make him stop and is relieved by rest. He is on an oral hypoglycemic and a statin but he is not
compliant to his medication. He has been smoking for the last 40 years. His pulse exam on the left reveals present femoral absent
popliteal and distal, his right leg revealed intact femoral and popliteal but diminished distal pulses His labs are normal apart from an
elevated BSL (see report). ECG: Normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
**A. Catheter-directed thrombolysis
B. Femoral thrombectomy
C. Above knee amputation
D. Heparinization and observation
1515. Patient with jerky movement in one arm (myoclonic seizure) given valproic acid and failed, what to give? Options
were:
A Levetiracetam
B Phenytoin
C Phenobarbital
1516. A patient with myoclonic seizures was started on Valproic acid, but the seizures persist despite adequate
treatment. What is the next appropriate medication to give?
A. Phenobarbital
B. Lamotrigine
C. Levetiracetam
D. Ethosuximide
1517.

1518. PREDICTIVE FORMULA FOR MALARIA CASES
1519.
1520.

1521.
1522.
1523.

1524.
1525.

1526. Pts complaining of RUQ pain for 2 month , us showing diffuse calcified gall bladder without stones , next ?
A. cholecystectomy
B. percutaneous biopsy
C. cholecystectomy tube
D. Observation
Q: A 58-year-old man presents with a 2-month history of right upper quadrant abdominal pain.
Ultrasound shows a diffusely calcified gallbladder without stones.
What is the most appropriate management?
A- Cholecystectomy
B- Percutaneous biopsy
C- Cholecystostomy cube
Answer: A- Cholecystectomy
1527. A 2-month-old baby presented with fever, vomiting, lethargy, and poor oral intake for 2 days. Urine dipstick
shows nitrites, leukocytes. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Start oral antibiotics
B. Send to hospital and start IV antibiotics
1528. female in her 30s underwent carpal tunnel syndrome surgery, when the surgeon applied lidocaine with
adrenaline she started to have more pain and numbness, what is the most appropriate initial step ? (Im sure the stem
like this)
- check her BP and HR

- DO doppler US
- check signs of ischemia in her hand
1529. patient with hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and end-stage kidney disease presents with muffled heart
sounds. Echocardiogram shows pericardial effusion. BP: 86/... (Was Frankly Hypotensive) What is the Most
Appropriate Next Step?
A. IV furosemide
B. Pericardiocentesis
C. Hemodialysis
1530. 48 years old male patient known with hyperlipidemia with recurrent history of acute pancreatitis for the last 10
years. presented with vomiting blood 1 day ago, all labs are normal, and on examination, the patient had splenomegaly,
on radiological examination, esophageal varices are found. What is the diagnosis?
A. Angiodysplasia
B. Arteriovenous shunt portal vein
C. Left-sided portal hypertension
D. Splenic aneurysm
1531. How to write Vitamin D dose?
A. Vit D 400 U OD
B. Vit D 400 units OD
C. Vit D 400 unit daily
D. Vit D 400 U daily
1532.
1533.

1534. Female with irregular menstrual cycle, she is obese and bmi 31. Labs and blood test are pending.
A. Lifestyle modification, exercise and diet
B. OCP
1535. 60 years old man with history of HTN and DM, came 4 months history of increased abdominal distention, no
history of alcohol use, he reported 10 years history of high aminotransferase, upon examination he has ascites. No
splenomegaly What is the BEST ?
A- Liver biopsy
B- ultrasound liver and spleen
C- abdominal CT
This Is A Case Of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Complicated By Cirrhosis Initial/Next To Diagnose Fatty Liver OR
Cirrhosis Is Ultrasound (B) # GOLD Standard To Diagnose Fatty Liver OR Cirrhosis Is Liver Biopsy ; However , Is It
Always Needed? No (I Can Diagnose Fatty Liver & Cirrhosis Via Labs & US & NON-INVASIVE Methods In >90% Of
Cases)
1536. Post term has respiratory distree and shifted to NICU X-ray: \ patchy, bilateral infiltrates, hyperinflation,
Flattened diaphragms, increased AP diameter, Pneumomediastinum What is the diagnosis?
TTN
Meconium aspiration syndrome MAS

Q: Newborn of mother knows case of GDM was in distress born through CS around 37-39 weeks found to have
pneumomediastinum and increased AP diameter with flattened diaphragm. What's is the most likely diagnosis?
A) TTN
B) RDS
C) Tracheoesophageal fistula
No meconium aspiration syndrome in choices
1537. Heart failure with reduced ef and dilated cardiomyopathy On Valsartan , statin , metoprolol , spironolactone and
furosemide What to add?
A-Ivabradine
B-Bisoprolol
C-Verapamil
D-Dilitazem
1538. 6-week-old infant, currently below the 3rd percentile for weight, presents with stridor that worsens when supine
and improves when prone. The infant also experiences apneic episodes and abnormal breathing sounds. Clinical
suspicion is high for laryngomalacia. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A-Refer to ENT
B-Reassure the parents
C-Start bronchodilators
D-Order a chest X-ray
1539. A Child with Cardiomyopathy with ejection fraction of less than 10%, a "Do not resuscitate" order was discussed
with the parents but not completed Now he need resussitation
A. Do not resussitate

B. Start CPR AND complete (just written like this)
C. Start CPR by the order of the consultant
D. Start CPR AND discuss with the family the DNR
1540. A patient with Burkit Lymphoma (DLBCL In Another Recall) is receiving B-CHOP chemotherapy. Laboratory
results show hyperkalemia (5.3) and hypocalcemia + hyperphosphatemia No Mention Of "Unable To Urinate" Uric Acid
BELOW 480 (100% SURE) No Mention Of Hydration What is the most appropriate management
A. Lasix
B. Thiazide
C. Allopurinol
D. Sevelamer
1541. A 50-year-old woman interphalangeal joints presented to the clinic with polyarthralgia affecting distal and
proximal bilaterally for 3-years. She does not have significant early morning stiffness. Clinical examination revealed no
active arthritis but there was non-tender hard nodules over some distal interphalangeal (see lab results). Test Result
Normal Values Hb 140 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count 190 150-400 × 109/L WBC 11
4.5-10.5 × 109/L ESR 15 2-1 mm/h (Male) 3-15 mm/h (Female) C-reactive peptide 5 <8.2 mg/L Rheumatoid factor 30
<58 kIU/L Urea 4 2.75-7.4 mmol/L Creatinine 75 44-115 mol/L Which of the following is the most likely
rheumatological disease?
A. Seronegative rheumatoid arthritis
B. Hand osteoarthritis
C. Polyarticular gout
D. Reactive arthritis

Answer: B, MG
1542. -52 year old DM patient complaint of DIP and PIP pain and swelling with bilateral knee pain. Physical
examination DIP, DIP swelling and left knee flexion limitation. Rheumatic factor 55 (normal <58) ESR 15 (normal <10)
What is the diagnosis? (the pic of hand was mentioned)
- Seronegative RA
- OA
1543. There was q about MVA pt had multiple fractures and underwent surgery put they can't control the bleeding and
the pt die They ask wt the primary cuz of death
Multiple fractures
Bleeding
Card arrest

1544.
1545. A 3-month-old girl is brought to the clinic by her mother, who is concerned about potential exposure to
gastroenteritis after the infant’s older sister was diagnosed with the illness several days ago. The infant is currently
well-appearing and up to date on vaccinations. Which of the following is the most appropriate recommendation?
A. Encourage increased free water intake
B. Administer the rotavirus vaccine
C. Discontinue fruit juice at dinner
D. Reassure the mother and monitor for symptoms
1546. A child presents with recurrent infections including pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infections, and his month
confirmed he had episodes of diarrhea. Which of the following investigations is the most appropriate next step?
A. Check C1 inhibitor levels
B. Hemolytic complement (CH50)
C. thrombocytopenia
D. Serum immunoglobulin levels
1547. 29-year-old man is seen in the pre-employment clinic for routine exam, He is asymptomatic. Physical
examination revealed a pansystolic murmur that radiated to the axilla. Which of the following is the most likely cause
for this murmur?
Mitral Valve Prolapse
Ischemic mitral regurgitation

Functional mitral regurgitation
Rheumatic mitral regurgitation
1548.
1549. Day 1: 1200 mIU/mL
Day 4: 1000 mIU/mL
Day 7: 800 mIU/mL
Day 14: 500
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Cease follow up
B. Perform immediate surgical intervention
C. Repeat bhcg in 1 week
D. Administer a second dose of methotrexate
1550.

1551.
1552. TB test in a city they had 200 cases beginning of the year now 50 new cases, 20 died What the incidence rate per
1000?
A-2
B-5
C-20
D-50

1553. A 30-year-old underwent a laparoscopic appendectomy 2 weeks ago (see report). Histology: arcinoid tumor at
the ip of the appendix measuring 0.5 cm Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Colonoscopy
B. No further action needed
C. Limited right hemicolectomy
D. CT scan of chest abdomen and pelvis
1554.short scenario with no complaints with no much details except that pt had blood transfusions 10 years ago. Lab
wise: AST andl ALT were both within normal range. Hepatitis B serology ( I am sure of every word) - Hepatitis B Ag (+) -
IgM Hep В (-) - IgG HepB (+) - Нер В е Ag (+) - Нер В е Antibodies (-) What is the most likely diagnosis?
- Acute HPV infection
- Chronic inactive HPV infection
- Immunized HBV
- recovered HBV infection
1555. 33-year-old female patient presented with anal fistula on examination: external opening at 7 o'clock you are
planning for fistulotomy Where is the most likely site of internal opening?
A- Midline posterior
B- Midline anterior
C-Lateral
D- No internal opening
Q: A patient has a perianal fistula with an external opening at the 7 o’clock position.
What is the most common site for the internal opening?
A. Left lateral
B. Midline anterior
C. Midline posterior
D. Straight Lateral

6 O-Clock ➔ Posterior
12 O-Clock ➔ Anterior
1556. 18 years old female diagnosed with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and atrial fibrillation, she is complaining
from palpitations and mild dyspnea (some vitals and elevated heart rate) he is asking about how to control her rhythm
A) Beta-blocker
B) Amiodarone
C) Digoxin
D) Verapamil
Q: A 40-year-old man is admitted with palpitations of 4-hour duration. He had similar attack a month ago
but did not seek medical advice. His initial electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with controlled
ventricular rate. He subsequently converted to sinus rhythm. Which of the following drugs is the most
appropriate to maintain sinus rhythm?
A. Digoxin
B. Bisoprolol
C. Verapamil
D. Amiodarone
Answer: D. Amiodarone
1557.8 years old boy presented with focal pain on his left leg that is increasing in intensity Associated with local
warmth and tenderness and subjective fever. He has a history of fall with wound What is the radiological investigation
for the leg?
A) X ray
B) MRI
C) Ct scan
D) Nuclear scan
1558.ministry of health in x country is detecting flu cases in the winter season, they gather data from hospitals, health
centers, labs. What is the type of surveillance
A) sentinel surveillance from selected reporting sites
B) active surveillance
C) passive surveillance
D) syndromic surveillance

1559. 6 y old boy present with convulsions, pallor hepatosplenomegaly and lymphadenopathy Hb and plt low WBCs 25
What is the line of management for his CNS should be involved ?
A) systemic chemotherapy
✅
B) intrathecal chemotherapy
C) anticonvulsant
D) ventripleural shunt
- Explaination is here: https://t.me/Saudi_SMLE_TOP10/44993
1560. Pregnant with uncontrolled bleeding result in DIC what is the most common cause?
A) Placenta previa
B) Placenta Abruptio
C) Congenital bleeding disorder
D) Uterine rupture
Q: A pregnant woman presents with massive uncontrollable vaginal bleeding that led to coagulopathy. What is the
most likely underlying cause?
A. Placenta previa
B. Placental abruption
C. Coagulation disorder
D. Uterine rupture
1561. A 34-year-old woman with progressive dysphagia diagnosed as a case of achalasia. She has no medical
problem and not on any medications. She is clinically unremarkable (see lab results). Test Result Normal Values RBC 4
4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x 1012/L. (Female) Hb 10 130-170 g/L (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) Platelets count
455 150-400 x
109/L WBC 9 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Urea 5 2.75-7.4 mmol/L Creatinine 98 44-115 mol/L
Which of the following is the best treatment option
Fundoplication
Pneumatic dilatation
Oral isosorbide dinitrate
Botulinum toxin injection
1562.

Image like this and it contain sickle cells Ask abt confirmatory test
A. Hb electrophoresis
B. Osmotic fragility test
C. Bone marrow
1563.

X ray I think it was boot shape heart of 6 days old child with sx of cyanosis , ask abt most important management at
this age I remember 2
A. Cardiac catheterization
B. Prostaglandin E1
C. Elective surgical repair (not sure)
1564.
1565. Patient present with large leiomyoma and menorrhagia prolonged menstruation, see image Hb is 70 What is
Most Appropriate Next management Step?
1- myomectomy
2- uterine artery catheterization
3- correct the anemia
4- OCP
Q: A 35-year-old woman with a leiomyoma associated with heavy menstruation (see image
and lab result)
HB 70 ( low)
Which of the following is the most appropriate next management step?
A. Myomectomy
B. Correct the anemia

C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Uterine artery embolization
Answer: B. Correct the anemia (GB)
1566. Patient present with large leiomyoma and menorrhagia prolonged menstruation, see image Hb is 70 What is
Most Appropriate Next management Step?
1- myomectomy
2- uterine artery catheterization
3- ....... (Nothing Mentioned About Anemia)
✅
4- OCP
1567.
1568. A 60-year-old woman is attending the clinic complaining of post-menopausal bleeding for the last 3 months.
She was found to have a uterine fibroid of 5 cm in size, noted in a recent ultrasound. Upon review of the previous
medical records, the ultrasound performed 5 years ago showed the same size and location of the fibroid. Which of the
following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Myomectomy
B. Hysterectomy
C. Uterine artery embolization
D. Obtain an endometrial sample

1569. A 61-year-old woman has had type 2 diabetes for 12 years. She takes insulin and does smoke. She was recently
started on enalapril 10 mg daily for hypertension but could not tolerate it because of a cough (see lab results). Blood
pressure 160/95 mmHg Heart rate 84 /min Test Result Normal Value Creatinine 142 44-115 umol/L 24 Urine Analysis:
Test Result Normal Values Creatinine clearance 66 100-140 mL/min 24-hour urine protein 1500 0-150 mg/24 hr Which
of the following is the most appropriate therapу?
A. Beta blocker
B. Thiazide diuretic
C. Calcium channel blocker
D. Angiotensin receptor blocker
1570. A 30-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department with an acute monoarthritis where joint aspiration
was performed. Based on the presence of crystals in the synovial fluid, he was diagnosed with gout. Which of the
following is the most likely type of the crystals seen?
A. Needle-shaped, negatively birefringent
B. Needle-shaped, weakly positively birefringent
C. Rhomboidal-shaped, negatively birefringent
D. Rhomboidal-shaped, weakly positively birefringent
1571.
1572.
1573.

1574.
Answer: B. BRONCHIOLITIS
1575.
Answer: A. Hepatitis B Immunoglobulin
1576.
Answer: B. IV hydrocortisone and intravenous fluids
1577.

1578. Child with features of ADHDA ( talkative and interrupt others ) The Q was about what to do to prevent the
progression of this symptom?
1 parental something program or management
2 isolate the child
3 restrict or limit the screen time
4 reassure
1579. 70 years old male complain of severe chest pain and change in voice after 8 hours of pneumatic dilatation of
esophageal stricture What is the cause ?
Aspiration
Bleeding
Perforation
Myocardial infarction
1580.

✅
C. Sick euthyroid syndrome
1581.Female PT with RLQ pain and no Fever, WBC within normal range, what to do?
-admit and reinvestigate after 6 hours
-discharge and tell them to return if the pain worsening
no US, no pregnancy test, no CT
Q: Female PT with RLQ pain and no Fever, primary investigation:
A-US
B-CBC
C-CBC, pregnancy test, urine analysis
D-CBC, RFT, LFT
1582.Female pt was prescribed prednisolone 60 mg tapering for 6 weeks but she continued the same dose by mistake
without taper, Found dead in bathroom What is the Cause?
A. Perforated duodenal ulcer
B. Hypertensive cerebral hemorrhage
C. Acute Cerebral vasculitis
D. intestinal ischemia with perforation
1583. A 5-year-old girl's mother noticed two episodes of night bedwetting, starting after the birth of her sister. She
remains dry in the evening.
A. Pediatric psychiatric evaluation
B. Restrict evening fluids

1584. Female came with vaginal discharge after delivery, 1st doctor she visited gave some treatment I think , she went
to another doctor because the sx remained , 2nd doctor saw Swab left inside the woman , what was the mistake of 1st
doctor?
1585. Female wants to do surgery and want to know everything about it ?!
- tell her minimal side affect to reduce anxiety
- Tell her details about surgery , recurrence , follow up plan
1586.
1587.

1588.
Answer: D. Magnesium sulfate
1589. Young male ( around 20) Pt presented after he has a BLUNT abdominal trauma CT : there was Extravasation
around the left kidney What are most appropriate step in management ?
A. Left Nephrosectomy
B. Angioembolization
C. Give fluid and observe
Q: 40-something-year-old woman presents after blunt abdominal trauma. She is initially hypotensive despite
resuscitation, but
her blood pressure is now 100/80 mmHg. A CT scan shows contrast extravasation near the left kidney with a perirenal
hematoma. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Emergent nephrectomy
B. Repeat CT after 6 months
C. Angioembolization
D. Foley catheter and monitoring

1590. Young male ( around 20) Pt presented after he has a BLUNT abdominal trauma CT : there was CONTRAST
Extravasation around the left kidney I THINK Patient Was UNSTABLE What are most appropriate step in management ?
A. Left Nephrectomy
B. Angio-Emoblization
C. Give fluid and observe
1591. Pediatric patient presented in ER with fever and barky cough a long senario but he was in distress Bp was 80/60
, Oxygen was 80% What is the appropriate initial management?
A. oxygen and antibiotic
B. dexamethasone (with dose 0.6 or something )
C. Some type of intubation in the OR
Q: Mild symptoms clear question?
A. Dexa (0.6)
B. Prednisone (dose)
C. Racemic epinephren

Q:
1592. Osbe (pic) sigmoid volvulus
1593. Rt upper limb weakness post neck extension, mri brain normal What investigation will help to reach diagnosis
Carotid us
Mri cervical spine
Ct cervical spine
Not related option

1594. A 55-year-old man presents to the clinic with a 3-month history of fatigue and lethargy. Examination reveals
pallor but no organomegaly. Which of the following is the most appropriate test to order next?
A. Peripheral blood smear
B. Fecal occult blood (FOB)
C. Bone marrow biopsy
D. No Further Screening Should Be Done
1595. A 55-year-old man presents to the clinic with a 3-month history of fatigue and lethargy. Examination reveals
pallor but no organomegaly. Which of the following is the most appropriate test to order next?
A. Peripheral blood smear
B. Fecal occult blood (FOB)
C. Bone marrow biopsy
D. endoscopy and colonoscopy
1596. 200 people randomly assigned Half will take vaccine Half will take placebo Will be monitored over 1 year Type of
study?
A. Cohort
B. Case-control
C. Cross sectional
D. Randomized clinical trial
1597. Patient KCO Rt inguinal hernia for 6 years (don’t remember age) came complaining of irreducible swelling, pain
in Rt inguinal region.
A. Diagnostic laparoscopy
B. Exploratory laparotomy
C. Double contrast pelvic CT
D. I don’t remember 4th option maybe observe?
Q: Intestinal obstruction incarcerated hernia with guarding and rigidity I think management I laprotomy?
A. Laparoscopy
B. Exploratory surgery for the hernia

1598. 45 years old patient, came with history reducible hernia in inguinal area it pop out every two days with mild pain
and he can manual reducible it by his finger, then he suddenly developed severe constant pain in early morning in that
area and came to hospital, on examination of the inguinal area and scrotum examination and he is free from both them
and pain is disappear, Now just have persistent nausea and vomiting, what is the next step ?
A-Pelvic and Abdomen CT
B-Hernia repair today after 2-hour
C-Reassurance and discharger
D-Hernia repair after 2 days answer
1599.
1600. Child with dry patches in face, scalp and extensor surfaces. Sometimes his cheeks are cracked and red and
weepy
A. Atopic dermatitis
B. Idiopathic urticaria
C. Drug induced dermatitis maybe
D. Don’t remember it

1601. A 9-month-old boy presents to the clinic with skin rash noticed by his parent over the past few weeks. His
parents are known to have eczema before. Which of the following is the typical site of eczematous plaques at this age?
A. Upper back
B. Diaper area
C. Dorsum of the feet
D. Scalp, cheeks, and forehead
1602. An 8-year-old boy presents to the clinic with skin rash noticed by his parent over the past few weeks. His
parents are known to have eczema before. Which of the following is the typical site of eczematous plaques at this age?
A. Upper back
B. Dorsal feet
C. Flexural surface
D. Scalp, cheeks and forehead
1603. A 14-year-old boy presents to the clinic with skin rash noticed by his parent over the past few weeks. His
parents are known to have eczema before. Which of the following is the typical site of eczematous plaques at this age?
A. Popliteal fossa
B. Perioral region
C. Antecubital fossa
D. Scalp and forehead
1604. An 85-year-old man admitted to the Intensive Care Unit following a massive stroke suddenly developed new
weakness. Physical examination confirmed papilledema (see report). Emergency CT brain: Hemorrhagic
transformation. Which of the following is the most definitive treatment?

A. Intravenous dexamethasone
B. Administration of mannitol
C. Craniotomy and decompression
D. Administering high-frequency ventilation
1605. A 32-year-old woman presents to the clinic with a 3-month history of lower back pain associated with morning
stiffness lasting almost 1 hour, as well as joint pain affecting both knees and ankles bilaterally. She denied any history
of skin rash or mucosal ulcerations. No history of fever. Clinical examination reveals limited lumbar spine movements
and active arthritis at both knees bilaterally. She also has tenderness over the Achilles tendon (see lab results). Which
of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Reactive arthritis
B. Rheumatoid arthritis
C. Ankylosing spondylitis
D. Crystal deposition arthritis
1606. A 38-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department with increased shortness of breath on exertion,
palpitations, and fatigue for one week. Physical examination reveals pale conjunctiva and splenomegaly. Peripheral
blood smear shows spheroytosis (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Blood transfusion
B. Hydroxyurea therapy
C. Corticosteroid therapy
D. Parenteral iron therapy
1607. A 27-year-old G3 P2 AO L2 at 34 weeks of gestation with severe preeclampsia. Which of the following is the
rationale behind giving antihypertensive medications?
A. Prevention of oligohydramnios
B. Reduce incidence of fetal demise
C. Reduce incidence of growth restriction
D. Decrease risk of maternal complications such as stroke
1608. A 33-year-old woman has been assessed in the Emergency Department with an acute exacerbation of asthma.
Which of the following features is most likely to indicate a life-threatening attack?
A. Failure to improve after nebulized salbutamol 5 mg
B. Oxygen saturations of 94% on room air
C. Peak flow of 30% best or predicted
D. Respiratory rate of 28/min
1609. A 55-year-old man is evaluated 2 days after having an episode of left arm weakness without pain that lasted 5
minutes. He is now asymptomatic. He has type 2 diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia. Medications are aspirin, insulin,
and atorvastatin. Physical examination show: that no carotid bruits or cardiac murmurs are heard on cardiac

auscultation, and all other physical examination findings are normal (see report). Electrocardiogram: Normal sinus
rhythm with no ST-segment or T-wave changes. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial imaging test?
A. Transesophageal echocardiography
B. Carotid duplex ultrasonography
C. CT angiography of the neck
D. MRI of the brain
1610. A 58-year-old man known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and ischemic heart disease. His
medications are metformin, sitagliptin, aspirin, lipitor, and lisinopril. He works as a car mechanic. For the last 4
months, he has started to notice exertional shortness of breath that interferes with his job but does not limit him from
doing it, provided that at rest, he is fine without any shortness of breath. Which of the following is the New York Heart
Association (NYHA) class of his shortness of breath?
A. Class I
B. Class Il
C. Class III
D. Class IV
1611. A 70-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department complaining of increasing shortness of breath and a
productive cough for the past 5 months. He has been a smoker for over 50 years. Over the course of 5 months, he
complained of malaise, night sweats, fever, and has lost 10 kg over the last 3 months. Which of the following is the
most likely diagnosis?
A. Lung carcinoma
B. Pneumonia
C. Bronchial asthma
D. Pulmonary embolism
1612. A 38-year-old primigravida at 33 weeks' gestation is diagnosed with small for gestational age fetus and reversed
end-diastolic flow on umbilical artery Doppler. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Repeat Doppler ultrasound in 1 week
B. Immediate delivery by caesarean section
C. Antenatal steroids and delivery within 1 week
D. Repeat ultrasound growth assessment in 2 weeks
1613. A 38-year-old primigravida at 33 weeks' gestation is diagnosed with small for gestational age fetus and reversed
enddiastolic flow on umbilical artery Doppler. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Repeat Doppler ultrasound in 1 week
B. Immediate delivery by caesarean section
C. Antenatal steroids and delivery within 72 Hours
D. Repeat ultrasound growth assessment in 2 weeks

1614. A 25-year-old primigravida at 34 weeks' gestation presents with generalized pruritus and yellowish discoloration
of the sclera and skin. Which of the following is the most important investigation?
A. Ultrasound estimation of fetal weight
B. Bile acids and liver function tests
C. Coagulation profile of the mother
D. Presenting symptoms of the mother
1615. A 45-year-old healthy woman (P4004) presents with a complaint of urine leaks when she laughs, coughs, or
sneezes. She denies any history of frequency, dysuria, nocturia, or hematuria. She does not report urge voiding when
hearing running water. Her symptoms are embarrassing and inconvenient. Which of the following is the most
appropriate initial therapy?
A. Kegel exercises
B. Anticholinergics
C. Bladder suspension
D. Anterior colporrhaphy
1616. A 33-year-old woman presents with a complaint of a heavy menstrual cycle. During examination, a firm fundal
mass was felt. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Pelvic MRI
B. Pelvic CT scan
C. Pelvic ultrasound
D. Ultrasound-guided biopsy
1617. A 53-year-old woman, whose last menstrual period was 18 months ago, is complaining of dyspareunia for the
past few months. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Depo-Provera injection
B. Oral contraceptive pills
C. Conjugated estrogen pills
D. Conjugated estrogen cream
1618. A 45-year-old woman presented to the clinic complaining of postcoital bleeding. Pelvic examination revealed a
2*1 cm cervical mass. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. PAP test
B. Pelvic CT
C. Pelvic MRI
D. Punch biopsy

1619. 0373. A 30-year-old woman in her first pregnancy. She is 20 weeks pregnant and known to have SLE. She has
been symptom-free for the past 2 years. She is taking Plaquenil daily. Which of the following is the most appropriate
next step?
A. Stop Plaquenil
B. Switch it to steroids
C. Continue the medication
D. Refer to Rheumatology to stop the medication
1620. A 31-year-old woman G2 P1 L1 had an uneventful pregnancy and a spontaneous vaginal delivery after 2 hours of
labor, just making it to the hospital. She delivered a healthy boy weighing 3000 g. After placental delivery, she started
to bleed heavily. Which of the following was her risk factor for postpartum hemorrhage?
A. Grand parity
B. Prolonged labor
C. Macrosomic baby
D. Precipitous labor
1621. A patient presents at 32 weeks of gestation with sudden vaginal bleeding of 700 cc. Which of the following is
this type of bleeding?
A. Early post-partum
B. Late postpartum
C. Intra-partum
D. Ante-partum
Q: A patient presents 3 weeks after vaginal delivery with sudden vaginal bleeding of 700 cc.
Which of the following is this type of bleeding?
A. Early post-partum
B. Late postpartum
C. Intra-partum
D. Ante-partum
Answer: B
Q: A patient presents 10 hours after vaginal delivery with sudden vaginal bleeding of 700
Which of the following is this type of bleeding?
A. Early post-partum
B. Late postpartum
C. Intra-partum
D. Ante-partum
Answer: A
A рatient presents at 32 weeks of gestation with sudden vaginal bleeding of 700 cc.

Which of the following is this type of bleeding?
A. Early post-partum
B. Late postpartum
C. Intra-partum
D. Ante-partum
Answer: D
Q: A patient at 32 weeks of gestation is 7 cm dilated, suddenly develops vaginal bleeding of
700 сc.
Which of the following is this type of bleeding?
A. Early post-partum
B. Late postpartum
C. Intra-partum
D. Ante-partum
Answer: C
1622. A 27-year-old G4P3 woman is seen in labor at 39 weeks of gestation. Examination revealed the cervix is 5 cm
dilated with clear amniotic fluid draining. Cardiotocography shows that the baseline is 140 beats per minute, no
accelerations, good variability, and no decelerations. The uterine contractions are regular and strong, occurring at a
rate of 3 to 4 in 10 minutes. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Induction of labor
B. Augmentation of labor
C. Emergency Cesarean section
D. Reassurance and reassessment in 30 to 60 minutes
1623. negative coccobacilli < organism : H influenza
1624. case about old man no medical history only hemorrhagic stroke treated and then after 1 week there is facial
asymmetry and dysthymia imaging show left cerebral infarction ask about the mechanism?
A. Atherosclerosis
B. cerebral embolism
C. rupture aneurism
D. cerebral artery spasm or stenosis
1625. Pt understand what is being told to him, But can't write, can't remember words to respond and can't know left and
right Where is lesion? (I tried to remember it as much as I can,)
A. parietal lobe
B. Temporal lobe

C. frontal
D. Occipital
Answer: A
1626. Infant/ child (I think he had cough or pneumonia NOT sure ) received abx and cured, after 3 days Sx back
1627. down$ (didn't say down) depressed nasal bridge and Single Palmar Crease.
A- hypothyroidism
B- hypoparathyroid
C- hypopituitary
D- hyperthyroidism
1628. Researchers make New drug best way to measure effectiveness (this My word i dont remmber the exact word of
the stem)
A-Chort
B-RCT
C-Meta analysis
1629. pregnant with placenta (Not sure abruption/previa) Postpartum bleeding.. how to prevent it in next pregnancy?(I
don't remember the options but i tried)
A- personal plan: management, risk
B- something about (being ready for complcatin)
C-deliver at ?? W
1630. Q: DRE and vaginal fistula
1631. 45-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Room complaining that her period has not stopped for the past
15 days and now she is feeling drowsy and easily fatigued (see lab results). BHCG is negative, Hb is 7 Which of the
following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Ultrasound
B. Dilatation and curettage
C. Start blood transfusion
D. Manage the bleeding and send her home
1632. 28-year-old man presented to the clinic with a 2-month history of joint pain, morning stiffness and mouth ulcers.
On examination, he has active arthritis at both wrist joints and second proximal interphalangeal joint of both hands
(see lab results). Test Result Normal Values Hb 125 {130-170 g/L (Male) | 120-160 g/L (Female); Platelets count 220
{150-400 x 109/L; WBC 5 {4.5-10.5 x 109/L; ESR 55 {2-10 mm/h (Male) | 3-15 mm/h (Female); Urea 4.5 {2.75-7.4

mmol/L; Creatinine 78 {44-115 mol/L; C-reactive peptide 12 <8.2 mg/L Complement C3 0.9 {0.7-1.5 g/L; Complement
C4 0.1 {0.15-0.45 g/L; about drug that reduces remission and vascular risk?
A. Hydroxychloroquine
B. Azathioprine
C. Cyclosporine
D. Mycophenolate mofetil
1633. An elderly patient receiving IV heparin develops deep vein thrombosis 6 days post-operatively. Platelet count is
75 ×10°/L. What is the best next step in management?
A. Start warfarin
B. Start enoxaparin
C. Transfuse platelets
D. Direct thrombin inhibitor
1634. Female, K/C PCOS with 6 failed induction of ovulation, came to infertility clinic asking for preimplantation
genetic selection her and her husband prefer a male baby What will you do / What's appropriate "The stem 100% didn't
mention anything about personal beliefs fertility clinic
A/perform, proceed with it
B / refer to other doctor who performs it
C/ refuse their request
D/ tell them it's unethical to do Answer: C
1635. Couples trying to convince for 6 years the female had PCOS semen analysis for the male is normal they asked
for sex selection because they want a male what is the proper action by the doctor?
A. refuse and dismiss them as patients
B. Procceed with sex selection as requested?
C. Tell them that sex selection is not eithically justified
D. Refer them to another clinic that do sex selection
Answer: C (if A was refuse their request, without the word dismiss, go for it)
1636. Couple came for ivf implantation and they want to have a baby boy
A- it's illegal
B- refer to another hospital and tell them you can't do it
C- agree to select the baby gender
Q: Female, K/C PCOS with 6 failed induction of ovulation, came to infertility clinic asking
for preimplantation genetic selection her and her husband prefer a male baby
What will you do / What's appropriate
"The stem 100% didn't mention anything about personal beliefs

fertility clinic "
A/perform, proceed with it
B / refer to other doctor who performs it
C/ refuse their request
D/ tell them it's unethical to do
1637. A 43-year-old woman with a history of pulmonary embolism 3 years ago is seeking an effective family planning
method. Which of the following is the most appropriate method?
A. Condom
B. Dermal patches
C. Intrauterine device
D. Oral contraceptive pills
NOTE: either A or B was replaced with - progesterone only pill
1638. What signs indicate early decompensated shock?
A. Tachycardia
B. Anuria
C. Peripheral cyanosis and cold
D. Tachypnea
B/C??
1639. female with upper and med pubic tubercle swelling irreducible , type of hernia
Strangulated femoral hernia
Obstructed inguinal hernia
1640. A patient presented with right iliac fossa pain, and description typical of appendicitis she did CT it shows
Appendiceal mass with no collection WBC 15
A-appendectomy

B-Conservative
C-Percutaneous drainage
D i dont remember D
1641. A child born post term, what is the neonatologist expected to find most in the baby?
Lanugo
Increased body fat
Dry body I think?
Short fingernails
Answer Is “Dry, Peeling, Wrinkled Skin” A Complication Of Post-Maturity (Specially To Diabetic Mothers)
1642. A baby boy received a vaccine and, after 3 days, developed a torso rash with mild fever (38.5 °C). He is
otherwise well, tolerating oral intake, and physical examination is unremarkable. Which of the following is the most
likely cause?
A. Allergic-related rash
B. Vaccine-associated rash and fever
C. Viral exanthem unrelated to vaccine
D. Serum-sickness
1643. Regarding what study to use to asses the burden of disease ? (I SAW THIS QUESTION IN 2025 ETHICS FILE
MD/GM) In the file the answer was observational they brought the question in the exam with the same choices but
instead of observational they wrote Qualitative
1644. A post-menopausal woman undergoing tamoxifen treatment for breast cancer, she had her last gynecological
assessment by ultrasonography during her pre-menopausal period 5 years ago.
At that time, she had intramural uterine fibroid measuring 2 x 3 cm. The patient complained of on and off moderate
amount of vaginal bleeding and her ultrasound confirmed intramural uterine fibroid measuring 5 x 8 cm and
homogenous endometrium 5 mm in thickness.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Leiomyoma
**B. Leiomyosarcoma
Endometrial adenocarcinoma
Metastatic ovarian carcinoma
1645. A 35 year old women reviewing the infertility clinic, found out to have a fibroid how to manage?
A. IUD
B. MYOMECTOMY
C. GNRH

D. HYSTERECTOMY
1646. WHAT SHOULD A PREGNANT ASTHMATIC PATIENT AVOID?
A-CARBOPROST
1647. A GIRL PRESENTED WITH ARTHRITIS, RASH, FEVER THE QUESTION IS TYPICAL FOR JUVENILE ARTHRITIS
I CHOSE PREDO AND AZATHIOPRINE THE REST WERE CONSERVATIVE (IV ABX, HYDRATION )
1648. A BOY PRESENTED WITH ABDOMINAL PAIN AND ARTHRITIS 3 WEEKS AFTER URTI
IT WAS BETWEEN IGA NEPHRITIS AND POSTSTREPTOCOCCAL BUT THE NORMAL COMPLEMENTS SUPPORTED IGA
NEPHRITIS
NOTE: IgA Vasculitis Is Systemic , Involves Joints & Abdomen , Not Only Kidneys IgA Vasculitis Is Also Called henoch
schonlein purpura
1649. A CHILD AFTER TEF SURGERY DEVELOPED TRACHEAL STENOSIS?
1650. WHAT TREATMENT IS CONTRAINDICATED IN PREGNANCY
ANSWER: RADIOIODINE
1651. A CHILD WITH FEVER, HEMATURIA AND SORE THROAT?
ANSWER: CHECK SERUM CREATININE
1652. A STARIGHTFORWARD DIRECT QUESTION ABOUT INEVITABLE PREGNANCY
1653. A WOMAN IN 41 WEEKS IN LABOR WITH GUSH OF FLUID?
A. ⁃ PRETERM LABOR
B. ⁃ PPROM
C. ⁃ SPONTANEOUS

D. ⁃ I DONT RMMBR D
1654.
1655. A GIRL WITH 1RY AMMENORRHEA AND NORMAL BREAST DEVELOPMENT
A-MULLERIAN AGENESIS
1656. A PATIENT WHO HAS JAUNDICE AND RUQ PAIN WITH A TRAVEL HISTORY THE QUESTION HAD A TABLE WITH
SEROLOGY HAV IgM + HAV IgG + HBVc ANTIGENS AND ABs - HBVsAg - but antibody + Diagnosis?
i dont rmmbr the choices but 2 of them were about both active hep a and b or both negative hep a and b the third
choice purely hepatitis A the 4th choice purely hepatitis B with the wording acute and chronic but i dont remember the
exact phrasing
Answer: Acute HAV With Immunization Against HBV
1657. WHATS A SINGLE CONFIRMATORY TEST FOR IDA?
A. -HIGH TIBC
B. -LOW FERRITIN
C. -LOW SERUM IRON
Confirmatory GOLD STANDARD Test For IDA Is Bone Marrow Biopsy It’s Rarely Needed , But It’s The CONFIRMATORY
For IDA
Q: Most definitive test to diagnose underlying disease (labs showed microcytic anemia).
A- Serum Iron
B- Serum ferritin
С- ТІВС
D- Bone marrow

1658. A LONG CASE STRAIGHT FORWARD ABOUT SCD THE QUESTION ASKS WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING IF ABSENT
IN ELECTROPHERSIS ENABLE U TO DIAGNOSE IT?
A HB S
B HB A
C HB F
D HB C
1659. A 35-year-old *female presents to the emergency department complaining of sudden-onset fatigue, generalized
weakness, no jaundice she denies recent infections or new medications. On physical examination, No
lymphadenopathy or splenomegaly is noted. Investigations reveal the following: Hemoglobin: Low Reticulocyte count:
Elevated Platelet count: Normal indirect indirect bilirubin: Elevated Haptoglobin: Decreased What is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)
B. Hereditary Spherocytosis
C. Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia (AIHА)
D. DIC
1660.
1661. A QUESTION TO CALCULATE FLUID FOR 14 YR OLD BOY 10 KG WITH 5% DEFICIT
1662. A GUY CAME FROM AN RTA DID FAST AND IT SHOWS AROUND THE SPLEEN AND LIVER FLUID BLOOD
PRESSURE 96/80 -
A. CT
B. LAPAROTOMY

1663. A child following up for being tall, has high arm span and long fingers, following up with ophthalmology for eye
issues (written like this), no mental retardation. Most likely diagnosis?
A. Marfan
B. Homocystinuria
C. Loeys-Dietz? Not sure
D. Ehlers-Danlos
Tall Stature + No Eye Symptoms ➔ EDS
Tall Stature + Yes Eye Symptoms ➔ Marfan
Tall Stature + Yes Eye Symptoms + Retardation ➔ Homocystinuria
1664. Female in labor the Dr told her she need CS ASAP but she refused What to do?
A:
B:
C: discharge her immediately to avoid legal liability
D: inform her about the consequences and take informed consent that she refused
Q: A 27-year-old pregnant woman presents in her last trimester of
pregnancy with severe cephalopelvic disproportion. Her physicians
have recommended a caesarian section. She does not want to undergo
the surgery. She fully understands the procedure and she is unwilling to
suffer the discomfort of surgery. She has been infonned that without the
C-section her fetus may not survive childbirth.
Vhat should you do?
a. Honor her wishes and do not perform the C-section.
b. Psychiatry evaluation.
c. Sedate her and perform the surgery.
d. Obtain a court order to perform the surgery.
e. Explain the situation to the baby's father and ask him for consent.
1665. Cholera Outbreak and Dr want to see the daily something and the variation 12,15,8,16,9,3,12 مﺎﻗرو اذﻛ What is the
center tendency measurement ?

Mean
Mode
Median
Range
1666. BMI ≥ 40
CrCl 27
Answer is UFH 7500/8hr
1667. Twin gestation with lambda sign & thick wall
A: Di Mo
B: Mono Di
C: Di Di
D: Mono Mono
1668. 24-year-old woman with recurrent on-off PR bleeding after defecation.She has spontaneously reduced
hemorrhoids. Hb was low. On examination: 3 hemorrhoids at 2,7,10 O’clock How would u manage?
A - Observation
B - Band ligation
C - Hemorrhoidectomy
D - Conservative

1669. A 50-year-old woman with major depression, complains of excessive urination and thirst for 2 months. She had
a right mastectomy 1 year ago. 3 months before, lung metastases was diagnosed. The physical examination is normal
except for the surgical scar (see lab results). Blood pressure 115/75 mmHg Heart rate 80/min Respiratory rate 16 /min
Temperature 37.1° C Test Result Normal Values Sodium 150 134-146 mmol/L Potassium 3.8 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Urea 6.7
2.75-7.4 mmol/L Creatine 111 44-115 mol/L Fasting blood sugar 6.8 3.5-6.5 mmol/L 24 Urine Analysis Test Result
Normal Values Osmolality 110 280-910 mOsm/Kg H20 Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Diabetes insipidus
B. Adipsic hypernatremia
C. Psychogenic polydipsia
1670. A 60-year-old man with hypertension presents to the Emergency Room with sudden onset of retrosternal chest
pain, dyspnea, and palpitations for 2 hours. His past medical history is significant for a non-hemorrhagic stroke 2
months ago (see lab results and report). ECG: ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, and aVF. Which of the following is
the most appropriate treatment?
A- Fibrinolytic therapy
B- Aspirin therapy
C- Unfractionated heparin
D- Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
Q: MI chest pain for 3 hours not ongoing management
A. thrombolysis
B. pci

1671. Adult with unilateral knee pain, wrist pain, and ankle pain. I think was for 5weeks. He has a history of urti a few
weeks back before the symptoms started. knee is swollen. ?Labs: are fine. synovial analysis is normal. What is the
diagnosis?
A. Septic Arthritis
B. toxic synovitis
1672. 7 months old pt. His mother noticed that he stopped smiling, low activity, fatigue. While examining the pt. he had
multiple movements of neck flexion followed by extension of body & limbs lasting for 1-2 seconds in a repetitive
pattern. EEG showed slow wave & multifocal spikes (not sure, but it wasn't hypsarrhythmia or chaotic pattern) What's
the diagnosis?
A. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy
B. Infantile spasms (West syndrome)
C. Lennox-Gastaut syndrome
1673. Surgeon is performing a back lipoma excision under local anesthesia using lidocaine. During the procedure, he
suspects that an excessive dose of lidocaine may have been administered. What is the earliest sign of lidocaine
toxicity?
A. Skin rash
B. Bradycardia
C. Seizures
D. Tinnitus
Tinnitus

Q: Patient with face laceration, repaired with lidocaine. Most common side effect of
lidocaine?
A. Nystagmus
B. Tinnitus
C. Ventricular tachycardia
D. Tonic-clonic seizures
1674. A mother brings her 6-month-old baby with complaints of pancytopenia and organomegaly. Labs has low
Hemoglobin What is the most likely type of leukemia?
A. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
B. Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
C. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
D. Acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia
1675. pt bipolar type 1, currently manic episode, best initial?
A. Lithium and monitor its level
B. "drug name" to control the manic episode (forgot the name maybe clozapine or another thing)
1676. Pt with long history of depressive episodes and positive family history of bipolar disorder Now has pressured
speech and insomnia What is the further management ?
A. Mood stabilizer like clonazepam to prevent mania
B. Antidepressants for depression management
C. Close Observation now
D. Health education or something like this
1677. A 3-year-old child is seen in the clinic with fever and cough for 5 days following a flu-like prodrome. On
examination, there is decreased air entry and crackles over the right lung middle zone. Chest X-ray is performed along
with laboratory investigations. What is the most appropriate management?

Blood pressure: 90/64 mmHg Heart rate: 110/min Respiratory rate: 20/min Temperature: 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation:
97% Laboratory results: Hb: 12g/dL (Normal for child: 112-165 g/L) Platelet count: 328 × 10°L (Normal: 150-400 ×
10%L) WBC: 22 × 10%L (Normal for 2-10 years: 4.5-13.5 × 10%/L) Neutrophils: 84% (Normal for 2-10 years: 30-77%
Lymphocytes: 15%
A. Reassurance
B. Bronchodilator and steroids
C. Admit for intravenous antibiotics
D. Discharge on amoxicillin for 7 days
1678. Patient post op with fever and reduced lung expansion diagnosis
Atelectasis
Pneumonia
1679. 10 y.o Child with high LDL cholesterol low HDL growing normally no genetic diseases, no history of surgeries or
medication everything else is normal:
Teach mother about feeding habits
Further investigation
Refer to cardiology prevention clinic
1680. 10 y.o Child with LDL 5 mmol cholesterol low HDL growing normally no genetic diseases, no history of surgeries
or medication everything else is normal:
Teach mother about feeding habits
Further investigation
Refer to cardiology prevention clinic
1681. Patient who drinks alcohol present with epigastric pain on and off for months normal investigations except
mildly raised AST diagnosis?
A. Chronic pancreatitis
B. Cholecystitis
C. PUD

1682.
1683. Woman with DVT and positive antiphospholid started on apixiban continue changed to warfarin
1684. Pregnant with PE what to give?
A. THROMBOLYSIS
Thrombolysis Only If MASSIVE PE
Massive PE = If There is HYPOTENSION Otherwise ,
Non-Massive PE (No Hypotension) Is Managed Via Heparin
1685. Triceps mass? Suggestive of malignant investigation
A. Excisional biopsy
B. Incisional biopsy
C. CT
1686. Ovarian cancer large with no mets management
A. Chemotherapy then reassess for surgery
B. chemotherapy
C. Radiotherapy
D. Surgical resection

1687. A 61-year-old woman presents with progressive abdominal distension, early satiety, weight loss, and pelvic
discomfort. Investigations reveal markedly elevated CA-125 levels. Imaging and biopsy confirm high-grade epithelial
ovarian carcinoma with extensive metastatic spread throughout the abdomen. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and excision of visible metastases
B. Start chemotherapy, then reassess for surgery
C. Palliative care only
D. Radiotherapy
Q: A 62-year-old woman presented with abdominal pain, constipation and anorexia for 8 months. On examination, a
solid irregular fixed pelvic mass was appreciated. Pelvic transvaginal ultrasonography showed a multilocular ovarian
mass. Based on staging and histological classification, she was diagnosed with an advanced epithelial ovarian cancer.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A: Chemo then see if surgery possible
B: Surgery to remove all the cancer
C: Radiotherapy
D: Palliative
1688. First presentation of hepatitis C virus infection found to have viral load 2 million copies what further ?
A. Hepatitis B screening
B. Fibroscan
1689. Spinal cord suspected fracture while waiting to be assessed by neurology what to do Stabilize?
1690. Lady with trigeminal neuralgia and weakness ul investigation
A. CT scan
B. MRI with gadolinium
1691. Amoebic liver abscess initial management
A. Percutaneous drainage
B. Metronidazole

Q: Which of the following is the most appropriate initial treatment for a liver amoebic abscess?
A. Metronidazole
B. Open drainage
C. Percutaneous drainage
D. Percutaneous aspiration
Answer: A
1692. Paralytic ileus management
K in normal saline
1693. Dm with wound delayed closure 10cm of plopen wound with granulation tissue seen Management?
A. Dressing
B. Antibiotics cream or something like this
C. Vacuum closure
1694. Hepatic encephalopathy what is increased
Ammonia
uraemia
1695. Arthritis and non inflammatory arthritis picutire of pain with exercise and no morning stiffness with no fever and
leucocytes 280 with loss on xray diagonosis Osteoarthritis ?
A. Septic
1696. Mesh repair what advice to give for the patient Avoid lifting for 6 months?
A. Wear binder for 3 weeks
Q: A Patient Post Hernia Repair, What Is Advice To Prevent Recurrence Of
Hernia?
شو رﻛذﻣ سﺑ ، تﺎﻣﺎﻋد نودﺻﻘﯾ ؟ ﺎﮭﻣﺳا نﺎﻛ اذﻛ نظا ) Months 3 For Bandage Compression Wear
ﺎﮭﻣﺳا
Take Laxatives For 6 Months
Avoid Lifting Heavy Objects For 6 Months
Answer: Avoid Lifting Heavy Objects For 6 Months
1697. History of imperforated hymen

1698. Patient you want to repair their carpal tunnel hand and he asked for anesthesia, after you inject lidocaine and
epinephrine the patient starts to have pain and pale hand, what will help you to establish the diagnosis?
A. Asses hands for ischemia
B. IV phentolamine
C. Monitor blood pressure and heart rates
D. US Doppler
1699. Patient diagnosed with ectopic pregnancy measuring 4 cm. Most appropriate treatment?
A. Methotrexate
B. Surgical management
1700. dysmenorrhea with nodularity on uterosacral ligament
Endometriosis
Adenomyoma
Leiomyoma
1701. A child was rescued from a house fire and was noted to have soot around the mouth and nose. What is the most
likely type of injury?
A. Carbon monoxide poisoning
B. Inhalation injury
Q: years old boy was pulled out from a fire House, pt was distressed with carbonaceous sputum and wheeze,
hoarseness of voice,there is burn on the face, diagnosis is?
A. Esophageal tear
B. Inhalation injury
C. CO2 poisoning
D. Fracture of face bones
1702. An elderly man presents with bright red blood per rectum mixed with stool. His hemoglobin is low. What is the
next best step?

A. Urgent colonoscopy
B. CT abdomen (CT angiography)
C. Nasogastric tube / EGD
D. Supportive care (IV fluids , transfusion , resuscitation)
1703. Which tocolytic can case patent ductus arteriosus to the newborn:
1- Ritodrine
2- Nifedipine
3- Indomethacin
Q: A 29-year-old woman at 29 weeks of gestation presented with preterm labor.
Which of the following tocolytics can cause patent ductus arteriosus?
A. Atosiban
B. Ritodrine
C. Nifedipine
D. Indomethacin
Answer: D (GB)
1704. 5 year old child with high fever i think (38) for 6 days , cracked red lips, rash, cervical lymphadenopathy, red
eyes. What is the diagnosis:
1- scarlet fever
2- kawasaki disease
3- Rocky mountain fever

1705. Child presented with red urine and fever on examination there is abdominal discomfort. (It is a Long case) What
is the diagnosis
1- UTI
2- glomerulonephritis
3- acute pyelonephritis
1706. Medical student in the OR said out loud , stop this is instrument is not in sterilizations state , which type of
communication is this?
1-call out
2-critical
3-closed loop communication
1707. An older patient (around 55 years old) had surgery and seemed confused about what to do after discharge, such
as followup visits and post-operative care, we should?
A- Re-explain the instructions and ask the patient to repeat them back to ensure understanding.

B- Provide a contact method in case he has any questions or concerns.
C- Explain the instructions to the family members
1708. 45-year-old man is complaining of chills and rigors. He underwent an elective subtotal colectomy for ulcerative
colitis 12 hours ago (see lab results). Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg, Heart rate 110/min, Respiratory rate 18/min,
Temperature 38°C. Test Result: Hb (110-170 g/L Male, 120-160 g/L Female), HCT (0.40-0.52 Male, 0.37-0.48 Female),
WBC 15 (4.5-10.5 x 109/L), Neutrophils 60 (40-60%). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A)Sepsis
(B) Bacteremia
(C) Severe sepsis
(D) Systemic inflammatory response syndrome
1709. A 25 year old male with bilateral breast enlargement since the age of 18, he’s uncomfortable and reluctant to
swim or exercise at the gym PE revealed grade 4 gynecomastia, most appropriate management?
A- reassurance
B- bilateral core needle biopsy
C- bilateral subcutaneous mastectomy
D- endocrine and liver work up
1710. 35 YO female patient presented to the screening clinic, her mother diagnosed with Breast cancer at age of 43
and her father with colon cancer at age of 53, what you will do for her?
A. Annual mammogram
B. Annual mammograms at age of 40
C. ?
D. Mammogram at age of 40 and colonoscopy at age of 55

1711. A 12-year-old patent presents to the clinic with diarrhoea, vomi5ng, miosis, bronchoconstriction, swea5ng, and
excessive saliva5on. On examina9on, the breath has a garlic odour. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Organophosphate poisoning
B. Diabetic ketoacidosis
C. Cyanide ingestion
D. Cocaine overdose
1712. Patient came for surgery, and during operation, doctor requested the nurse to administer a unit of blood.
However, the nurse informed the doctor that the patient had already received a unit of blood as per a previous order.
What is this situation called?
A) Closed loop communication
B) Order assessment
C) Hand off
D) Cut off
Q: In the OR, the surgeon said” charge nurse hang another bag of blood” the nurse replied”
hanging the bag” and did it. What’s the type of communication?
A- call out
B- closed loop communication
C- Situation ,assessment , Background
D- Hand off
1713. A 3-year-old asymptomatic child is examined prior to elective oral surgery. A grade 2/6 low- pitched continuous
murmur is heard at the upper right steal border when the child is Sitting; the murmur disappears when the child is
supine. Which of the following is the most appropriate acton?
A. Reassure, murmur is innocent
B. Obtain a cardiac consultation
C. An9bio9c prophylaxis prior to oral surgery
D. Postpone oral surgery and re-evaluate the child
1714. Warfarin was not stopped by patient despite of the clear instructions, the nurse in the OR noticed that the patient
did not stop the drug as instructed and informed the surgeon, so the surgeon postponed the operation:

A) Adverse event
B) Medical negligence
C) Near miss
D) Principle of totality
1715. 18-month child was brought to clinic for a regular checkup. The doctor found out that the child had not taken
any of his scheduled vaccines. He asked the mother why and she replied “Vaccines will make my son retarded!”. What
is the appropriate action?
A) Refer the mother for psychiatric assessment
B) Contact child protection services
C) Explain the benefits of vaccines to the mother
D) Contact the hospital ethics committee
1716. Parents brought their child to the hospital for inability to move his arm Xray showed fracture at both distal ulna
and radial bone. The child looks healthy and dressed well, and good hygiene they recall that 2 days ago the mom

dropped a plate at the child arm and noticed he couldn’t move his arm they didn’t notice any bruising, so they thought
it’s just a strain. Which of the following is indicative of child abuse?
A) Type of fracture
B) Delayed presentation
C) Consistent story of the parents
D) The appearance of the baby
1717. A 50-year-old man underwent an open mesh repair of a left inguinal hernia. He presented 2 months later
because he noticed that the left testes had become smaller in size. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Ligation of testicular artery
B. Mesh migration to the scrotum
C. Thrombosis of pampiniform plexus
D. Tightening of external inguinal ring
1718. A patient came from Sudan 10d ago with fever rigors ..etc you are suspecting malaria which of the following
drug therapy you would give him?
A- chloroquine
B- Quinine
C- Artemether combination therapy
1719. Patient came with vaginal discharge she has done CS with episiotomy 10 days ago, the obstetrician diagnosed
her with UTI and prescribed Abx, but she did not improve then she went to another obstetrician, and he found infected
vaginal swab, What is the medical error done by the first obstetrician?
A) Let the midwife assist him and depend on her
B) Doctor failed to follow the surgical safety protocol in the OR
C) No communication between the second and first obstetrician
D) Genuine difference assessment or diagnosis of patient case
1720. 22-year-old man known case with AIDS on active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) presented with history of
headache and weakness at left side of the body. On examination, he is found to have left hemiparesis, hemianopia,
aphasia, ataxia, and 6/7 cranial nerve palsies. Investigation showed a rising titers of anti-toxoplasma immunoglobulin
G (IgG) antibodies and positive immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibody. Brain MRI scans demonstrated multiple hypodense
lesions in white matter and basal ganglia with mass effects. Which of the following is the best treatment option?
A. Rifampicin and cefuroxime
B. Doxycycline and clindamycin
C. Chloramphenicol and leucovorin
D. Sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine

1721. A patient admitted with heart failure The Doctors put him on sacubatril/valsartan, Spirono, Metoprolol and
discharge, on follow up he's fully normal, asymptomatic, but the lab showed HYPERKALEMIA (it was mild elevation
MAYBE 6 ) What to do It Was 5.6 , Not “6”
A:
B: discontinue sacubatril/valsartan
C: reduced dose of spironolactone
D:
1722. A patient with Methamphetamine abuse, present with dehydration, dry mucus membrane, AMS, There are other
symptoms but i dont remember it but for sure No Jaundice, No Lower limb edema Vital: BP: mild hypertension (forgot
the number) No labs at all What's explain the patient symptoms?
A: Renal toxicity/failure
B: Liver toxicity/failure
C: Electrolytes disturbance
1723. Female pt (can’t remember her age)her BMI 35,going to do surgery asking about VTE prophylaxis?
-compression socks
-LMWH 40 mg once daily
1724. A 25-year-old male with chronic use of a steroid inhaler due to poorly controlled asthma presents now with a
white patch on his tongue and mouth. What is the most appropriate treatment?
1. Nystatin
2. Itranidazole
3. Mebendazole
4. Amphotericin B
1725. monochorionic monoamniotic ..day of cleavage
Q: A 30-year-old woman in her first pregnancy had an ultrasound confirming Monochorionic Monoamniotic twins.
What was the time interval between ovulation and cleavage?
A. 0-72 hours
B. 4-8 days
C. 9-12 days
D. >12 days
Answer: C

1726. 7 years female with eyelid erythema heliotrope ash and thickening of skin over a metacarpophalangeal joints +
proximal muscle weakness
A)Scleroderma
B)SLE
C)Juvenile Dermatomyositis
D)Rheumatic fever
1727. Pt with tumor lysis. Has muscle weakness, fatigue palpitations K:6.2 I cant remember the values of uric acid,
Po4 and Ca His symptoms are due to ;
Hyperkalemia
Hypo Ca
Hyper Po
1728.
1729. What to add Patient on .3 norepinephrine Hypotensive what to add?
A. increase the dose to .5
B. add vasopressin

1730. Pediatric with periorbital cellulitis investigation
A. CT scan
1731. perianal abscess diagnosis clear
1732. Fournier's Gangrene DM crepitus and anal cellulitis initial investigation
US scan
MRI
CT
Answer: Debridement
1733. Newborn with severe jaundice was brought to the emergency department. Mother says previous siblings were
also admitted after birth for similar jaundice. What is the single most important thing to check?
A. Mother’s blood group
1734. Child presented with bowed legs and Harrison sulcus suggestive of rickets. Most appropriate
treatment/supplement?
A. Vitamin A
B. Vitamin D3

Q: A kid with rickets, what type of vitamin D do you give him?
vitamin D1
vitamin D2
vitamin D3
vitamin D4?
Answer: vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol)
1735. Pregnant woman at 14 weeks. Mother is O negative, father Rh positive. Previous pregnancy history present.
Current pregnancy shows no anti-D antibodies. Most appropriate management?
A. Give anti-D now
B. Give anti-D at 28 weeks
C. Follow-up MCA Doppler
D. No intervention
1736. Woman with 4 cm ectopic pregnancy in the right fallopian tube scheduled for surgery. Most appropriate
management?
A. Remove the right fallopian tube
B. Remove both fallopian tubes
C. Methotrexate injection during surgery
1737. Young patient with recent chest pain and history of exchange transfusions. Most appropriate investigation?
A. Hb electrophoresis
1738. Study about malaria, what is the mosquito targeted.
Answer: female Anopheles mosquito
Q: 23-year-old male recently arrived from Sudan presented with fever and jaundice, blood film confirmed the presence
of
malaria, which mosquitoe type is known to transfer the disease to human?
Female anopheles mosquito
Áedes aegypti
Culex Pipiens
Aedes albopictus
1739. Chest trauma with paradoxical chest movement ،management of flail chest

Answer: supportive management
Flail Chest = IV Analgesia + Ventilatory Support
1740. 54-year-old male with history of DM and CKD, recently admitted for acute coronary syndrome, presents to clinic
for follow-up. He has high creatinine, slightly high cholesterol, low HDL, and high LDL. Which of the following
medications should be added to his regimen?
A. Atorvastatin
B. Niacin
C. Ezetimibe
D. No need to add anything
1741. Elderly with DM, HTN, AF, admitted for TIA. Most appropriate treatment?
A. Oral anticoagulant
B. Oral hypoglycemic
C. Oral anti-hyperuricemic
D. Beta blocker
1742. 30-year-old man, smoker, newly diagnosed COPD. Normal vitals, only chronic cough. Next management step?
A. Stop smoking
B. Oral ipratropium
C. Steroid
1743. 10-year-old with polyuria/polydipsia, HbA1c 6.8%, C-peptide 0.09 (low). Most likely diagnosis?
A. Type 1 diabetes mellitus
B. Type 2 diabetes mellitus
C. MODY
D. Stress-induced hyperglycemia
1744. Pregnant came to the antenatal clinic with history of 2 preterm delivery, and now she is having vaginal spotting,
what to give now ? (Only this without details)
A-Estrogen
B-Progesterone
1745. elderly, epigastric pain for 3m, wt loss, jaundice and dark urine There was dilatation of intrahepatic and
extrahepatic duct Labs: cholestatic picture (They did not mention if the gallbladder is palpable or shrunk)
A. Klatskin tumor
B. Gall bladder cancer
C. Ampullary cancer

Q: A 67-year-old man presented with a 2-month history of yellowish discoloration of his sclera and skin with dark urine
and pale stool. On examination, he was jaundiced with a palpable distended gallbladder (see report and lab results).
Test Result Normal Values Alkaline phosphatase 421 39-117 IU/L Direct bilirubin 122.3 1.5-6.5 mol/L Total bilirubin
134.5 3.5-16.5 umol/L Ultrasound: Dilated intra and extrahepatic bile ducts with hugely distended gallbladder. Which
of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Klatskin tumour
B. Pancreatic cancer
C. Mirizzi's syndrome
D. Common bile duct stone
Answer: B (MG)
1746. 42-year-old patient undergoes colonoscopy for evaluation of gastrointestinal symptoms. A 1.3 cm colonic polyp
is identified and removed. Histopathology reveals a tubular adenoma. What is the most appropriate follow-up
colonoscopy interval?
A. After 10 years
B. Every 3 months (not sure of that)
C. Not needed
D. After 3 years
1747. Molar pregnancy asked about its management
A. suction
B. dilation curettage
Q: Molar pregnancy Tx
A: suction & Evacuation
1748. 40 y old women multiple sex partners came to the outpatient infection clinic. Ask about the most effective
preventable method
-Monogamy
-Barrier use

-Routine screening
-consistent condom use
Q:
1749. SCA 6 years admitted for crisis. Nurse called the on call doctor. And he ordered analgesia.
-Give patient analgesia
-Write complete file ordered
-Analgesia can not be ordered through phone call
-Call another nurse to approved the order
1750. 40~yr,Breast mass for 3 months upepr outer quadrant Biopsy option
A: FNAC
B: True-cut
C: excisional
1751. patient had an episode of unprovoked deep vein thrombosis. He has no personal or family history of related
diseases. He has been on warfarin for three months and is tolerating it very well. His current INR is 2.5. What is the
appropriate management for this patient?
A. Discontinue warfarin now

B. Continue warfarin for total of six 6 months
C. Continue warfarin indefinitely
D. Discontinue warfarin and perform thrombophilia testing
1752. (40 or 50) patient had an episode of unprovoked (PROXIMAL or POPILITEAL) deep vein thrombosis. He has no
personal or family history of related diseases. He has been on warfarin for three months and is tolerating it very well.
His current INR is 2.5. What is the appropriate management for this patient?
A. Discontinue warfarin now
B. Continue warfarin for total of six 6 months
C. Continue warfarin indefinitely
D. Discontinue warfarin and perform thrombophilia testing
1753. Another Q about pregnant female in 3rd trimester All her previous BP f/u were normal 120/70 Now in this visit
her BP is 160/100 No protein in urine No symptoms at all What is this
Gestational HTN
Preeclampsia
Eclampsia
Chronic HTN
1754. A 39-year-old primigravida attended her routine prenatal visit at 39 weeks' gestation. She denied any headache,
visual changes, nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain. Urinalysis was negative for protein (see lab results). Vital signs at
this visit: Blood pressure 160/90 mmH, Heart rate 84 /min Vitals signs at all other visits: Blood pressure 120/70
mmHg, Heart rate 68 /min Test Result Normal Values НСТ 0.34 0.37-0.48 Platelets count 165 150-400 x 109/L
Alanine aminotransferase 12 5-40 IU/L Aspartate aminotransferase 22 12-40 IU/L Which of the following is the most
likely diagnosis?
A. Eclampsia
B. Chronic hypertension
C. Gestational hypertension
D. Superimposed preeclampsia
1755. Case about meningitis and family need Prophylaxis
A: ciprofloxacin single dose
B: penicillin + rifampin
C: certificate
Q: A pediatric patient has been diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. His brother and sister, who live in the
same household, are asymptomatic. Which of the following regimens is appropriate for chemoprophylaxis in
these close contacts?
A. Penicillin and rifampin for 1 week
B. Ciprofloxacin single dose

C. Penicillin for 1 week
D. IM ceftriaxone 4 doses
1756. 4 y boy coming to clinic concerning about short stature has multiple dysmorphic features and Webbed neck and
ejection murmurs at auscultation what is syndrome
Sotos
Turner
Marfan
Noonan
1757. Child with Multiple bruses and ptechia with echomosis after history of runny nose and flu symptoms and her
brother has same symptoms Isolated thrombocytopenia in child Labs: Platelet 22 WBC 8 Hg 125 what is the most
diagnostic test?
Coagulation profile
BM aspiration
Blood film
Anti platelet antibody
1758. Child with Multiple bruses and ptechia with echomosis after history of runny nose and flu symptoms and her
brother has same symptoms Isolated thrombocytopenia in child Labs: Platelet 22 WBC 8 Hg 125 what is the
CONFIRMATORY Test?
Coagulation profile
BM aspiration
Blood film
Anti platelet antibody
1759. Isolated jaundice in neonate 5 days old all other exam normal ( doctor notice yellow skin in pediatric clinic ,
parents came for postpartum checkup ) What is the diagnosis?
Breast milk jaundice
Kernicterus
1760. Man with pulsatile abdominal mass there’s evidence of rupture: Asking about definitive management:
A. surgery
B. medication to reduce bleeding
1761. Child with burning in micturition and mid urine sample klebsiella >10000 Asking how to mange
A. treat as acute uti
Q: 8 yr burning micturition and frequency, klebsiella in urine culture

what to do
Repeat or not to give medication or Treat as UTI
Probably we will treat because symptomatic
1762. Women admitted to ward found to have ectopic pregnancy, now she is in sever pain, the nurse called the doctor
who was far , asking what medication can the doctor prescribe by (phone):
-methotrexate
-paracetamol
-pethidine(i think)
1763. Patient with ectopic pregnancy presented with abdominal pain, the nurse called the doctor but he was busy and
asked her to give medication to the patient. What is the most appropriate action?
A) Ask another nurse to approve
B) Give methotrexate
C) Give paracetamol
D) Doctor cant prescribe over phone
1764.
Answer: D: Nutrition feeding
1765. Saudi something want to inform WHO and some international organization to assess health in Saudi arabia: what
is the most important variable to inform about:
-risk factors
-confounders
-Health indicators

1766. 55 y/o Women with birad 0 The mammogram show overlaps shadows bilaterally what to do:
-repeat mammogram in 6 month
-repeat mammogram in 1 year
-oreder further investigations
-some surgical or biopsy for both breasts
1767. Young lady with secondary amenorrhea Had D&C 3 month ago, what is the investigation:
-ct abdomen and pelvis
-mri brain
-hystroscopy to look for intra-uterine adhesions
1768. Patient after MVA has severe back pain, exam is normal, respiration is normal Neurosurgical consult is ordered
What measures is best now
A: --
B: --
C: ensure spine immobilization
D: full back CT
1769. HBV
A. ENTACAVIR
B. INTERFERON
1770. Elderly pt~ 70y/o after elective orthopedic surgery was in icu when he wakes up was alert but confused asking ”
where I’m?” And trying to remove the canula, what to do:
-haloperidol with dose
-Quetiapine
-keep assuring him and adequate lighting

1771. Elderly with UTI and suspected urosepsis admitted 2 days later he developed acute confusion with fluctuations
in awareness, he was AGITATED what to do??
A: sedation
B: Physical restrain
C: regular sleep cycle
1772. hyper resonant chest with low blood pressure : tension pneumothorax
1773. A 35-year-old woman presents with severe generalized abdominal pain, associated with nausea and vomiting
for the last few hours. She is known to have an intrauterine contraceptive device inserted for the last 3 years. She did a
home pregnancy test, which was positive. Ultrasound: Fluid collection of approximately 13 x 15 cm. No identified
gestational sac. Both ovaries are normal. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Ruptured corpus luteum
B. Intact ectopic pregnancy
C- ruptured ectopic pregnancy
1774. 21 year old patient with right iliac fossa pain for 7 days on examination: palpable mass at the iliac fossa WBC
high US done showing appendiceal mass with Collection What to do:
A) non interventional
B) lap appendectomy
C) open appendectomy
D) exp laparotomy
1775. PPROM which protein could help establish the diagnosis?
A- Placental Protein 14
B- Placental alpha-1 microglobulin 1 (PAMG-1)
C- Placental Vassopresinase
Q: A 33-year-old pregnant woman G3P2 at 24 weeks' gestation presents to the clinic complaining of sudden, watery
vaginal
discharge. A sterile speculum examination is performed to evaluate for preterm prelabor rupture of membranes
(PPROM).
Which of the following proteins in the vaginal secretions can help establish the diagnosis of membrane rupture?
A. Placental Protein 14 (PP14)
B. Placental alpha-1 microglobulin 1 (PAMG-1)
C. Placental Vasopressinase
D. Placental growth factor.
Answer: B

1776. An 11-month-old boy is not moving his right hand and when he presented to the hospital it appeared that he had
right ulnar and radial fracture presented after 2 days history of a fall on an outstretched hand when the doctor asked
the parents why they didn’t bring him earlier they said that they didn’t see any bruises. child is dressed well,
well-nourished and has had regular well baby visits.
A) Treat the child and inform the authorities
B) Believe the parents and treat the child
C) Treat the child and order head CT
D) Call the police
1777.V A 35-year-old woman with a leiomyoma associated with heavy menstruation she doesn't want children soon
(see image Which of the following is the most appropriate next management step?
A. Myomectomy
B. hysterectomy
C. Oral contraceptive pills
D. Uterine artery embolization
1778. 30-year-old G4 P3 at 30 weeks of gestation presents with severe pain in the right flank radiating to her groin.
She also complains of rigors and chills. Urine analysis: Numerous pus cells. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Appendicitis
B. Pyelonephritis
C. Meckel's diverticulum
D. Round ligament torsion
1779. A 35-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Room with sudden onset of shortness of breath associated
with pleuritic chest pain. Her past medical history is unremarkable. She is using oral contraceptives regularly. Physical
examination is unremarkable. Imaging and laboratory tests are requested. Which of the following is the most
appropriate investigation to establish the diagnosis?
A. D-dimer
B. Echocardiography
C. Chest CT angiography
D. Ventilation-perfusion (VQ) scan
1780. 5 years old with chronic productive cough , was admitted to hospital multiple times with wheezing and received
antibiotics, neonatal admission for jaundice and treatment with phototherapy Brother has same condition What is the
investigation:
-Cbc

-Abg
-Sweat test
1781. Management of cervical cancer stage 2B:
-conization
-radical hysterectomy
-other type of hysterectomy
1782. 20 girl with expanding breast mass after menarche: what to do next
1783. Man with inguinal hernia with mild pain
-bissan repair
-mesh repair
-observe
1784. Weight chart with plateauing after six month(after introduction of food) asking which food should be avoided:
-protein
-fat
-Gluten
1785. Which will decrease risk of pre eclampsia+ IUGR:
aspirin
Q: other question pregnant patient with hx of preeclampsia asking how to reduce eclampsia risk in current pregnancy:
answer aspirin
1786. Newborn after CS has respiratory distress without desaturating. X ray shows: fluid in the lung fissure What is
next step:
A) iv fluid
B) 30-40 oxygenation
C) x-ray
1787. splenic laceration grade3 : whats management :
A. repeat ct in 24 hour
B. NON INTERVENTION MONITORING

1788. A 36-year-old man was stabbed in the right lower quadrant of his abdomen 1 hour back. He complained of pain
at the wound site. Local wound exploration revealed penetration of the anterior abdominal fascia. Blood pressure
110/62 mmHg Heart rate 87 /min Temperature 37.2 °C Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. CT scan abdomen
B. Hospital observation
C. Diagnostic laparoscopy
D. Exploratory laparotomy
1789. Most diagnostic investigation for renal scarring
A: Ultrasound
B: Renal MAG3 Scan
C: DMSA
1790. Elderly diabetic, black toe, dorsalis absent/not palpable, next or initial management:
A. Tissue Biopsy
B. ABI
C. MRI
1791. Case presenting with MIh nad history of hemorrhagic stroke 10 years ago, the current center does not have PCI:
-refer to other hospital with pci
-give streptokinase
-Give tpa without anti platelets
-give asprin, clopidogril, nitrates and heparin
1792. A 10-year-old patient presents with a 3-day history of yellow discoloration of the sclera, anorexia and abdominal
pain (see lab results).Test Result Normal Values Indirect bilirubin 140 <19 mol/L Total bilirubin 260 <20.5 mol/L
Albumin 40 36-52 g/L Total Proteins 76 56-80 g/L Alanine aminotransferase 878 10-35 U/L Aspartate
aminotransferase 1005 12-40 IU/L Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Gilbert's syndrome
B. Infective hepatitis
C. Obstructive jaundice
D. Acute pancreatitis
1793. Long term GERD, developed intermittent dysphagia to solid + weight loss Best investigation?
A
B: Endoscopy
C: manometer
D: pH monitor

1794. What's would decrease if patient loss 25% of their blood volume
A: Pulse pressure
B: UOP
C: GCS
D: HR
1795. Child w/ PMHx of Influenza vaccine flushing, SYNCOPE What to do in the future
A: don't give any vaccine in the future
B: give intranasal vaccine
C: give inactivated vaccine w/ antihistamine & steroid
D: Don't give influenza vaccine in the future
1796. A case of a man traveled to Indonesia & Thailand 1 yr ago Now complain of chronic foul smelling diarrhea for 6
months!! No abdominal pain !!! CBC: ↓ Hb, ↑ MCV = Macrocytic Anemia Tongue exam was showing thick tongue
(something like this) What's the diagnosis?
A: Whipple disease
B: Tropical sprue
C: Celiac disease
D: SIBO
1798. Missed abortion how Tx ?
It Was Infected Abortus , She Had Missed Abortion + Fever
A
B
C: prostaglandin
D: Abortifacient with antibiotic
1799. Child w/ dilated CMP, CP, SOB, Fever, Tx ? There was associated CXR (i saw pulmonary edema (not sure)
A: Epinephrine
B: Dobutamine
C: Milrinone

D: furosemide
1800. Patient with psychosis not compliance to medication What to do
A: Injectable long acting antipsychotic
B: Group / Support Therapy
1801. Patient w/ Hx of Appendicitis 10 days ago Now on U/S there is 12cm abscess What to do?
A: PC drainage
1802. Ketone positive Characteristic odor Hypoglycemia Seizure Diagnosis?
A: DKA
B: Marble urine syndrome
C: Galactosemia
D: Fructose intolerance
1803. Old Patient w/ knee arthritis and high WBC, Aspiration is negative for Crystal Culture is pending What to do?
A: NSAID
B: Steroid
C: Antibiotic empirically
1804. Testicular torsion full symptoms & exam & U/S Clinical picture The Q asking for Tx
A: Surgery
B: detwist the testicle + If pain relief discharge
1805. 14yr delayed 1ry amenorrhea + Cyclic pelvic pain on exam there is blue mass in vagina
A: imperforate hymen
B: Vaginal septum
1806. A case telling you the Hb electrophoresis showing: ↑↑↑ HbA2 Dx ?
A: Beta thalassemia
B: Sickle cell anemia
Answer: Beta thalassemia TRAIT
1807. Couple w/ infertility
Male good
Female: B/L tubal block
Management?

A: IVF
B: induction w/ clomid
C: Indication w/ ----
D:No laparoscopy
1808. Trauma patient with hypotension, X-Ray reveled: Trachea shifted to the right, expanded lungs and widened
mediastinum. What is the diagnosis?
A. Massive hemothorax
B. Pneumothorax
C. torn of aorta
D. Spontaneous pneumothorax
1809. Patient came to ER severally beaten by her husband with multiple physical bruises, she tell you that she doesn’t
want to inform the authorities, what is your action?
A- talk to the patient
B- Reassurance
C- inform authority
D- educate about violence
1810. Infant with chronic heart failure due to a congenital heart disease. DNR order was discussed, but not completed
“didn’t specify discussed with who!”. The patient out of sudden arrested. What to do?
A. Stop CPR
B. Start CPR AND complete
C. Start CPR then discuss with the family about THEIR decision
D. Start CPR after order by the primary consultant
Q:
1811. Pt post lap chole, next morning developed productive cough + high temperature Most appropriate next step?
A- Observation

B- CT scan
C- Sputum culture
D- Chest physiotherapy
1812. Postpartum pt *5 days* Looked depressed what to give:
- ssri
-multivitamins
1813. A diabetic pt has ulcer in lateral foot with discharge and granulation but intact pulse
A) venous
B) ischemic
C) malignant
D) neuropathic
Diabetic patient with pus discharge from ulcer in the Lateral foot ulcer “not leg” with granulation tissue and pus, pulses
are present. What's the underlying etiology?
A- venous
B- arterial
C- neuropathic
D- malignant
Answer: C
1814. 4yo PRE SCHOOL the mother complains from nocturia
A- postpone training until 6yo
B- encourage toilet habit
C- urology referral
D- sleep alarm
1815. A scenario of a doctor who shared a medical report without consent. What is the justification?

A) A family member requested a report
B) It is a reportable disease
C) The patient is mentally incompetent
D) The hospital wants to share the case with the public media
1816. A child brought by mother for development assessment. He can walk backwards, Follow simple commands. He
started using a spoon and Pointing to things he is interested. What is the expected age for this child by months?
A) 18
B) 15
C) 24
D) 48
1817. female had head injury presenting with to ED with GCS 8/15, with dark ecchymosis around the eyes and crusted
blood in her nose nostril. What is the best way to secure her airway?
A. Oro Tracheal intubation
B. Nasotracheal intubation
C. Cricothyrodotomy
D. tracheostomy
1818. A 19-year-old otherwise healthy man presents to the emergency department with gradually worsening right
hypochondral pain and generalized fatigue. Examination: Conjunctival pallor and right-upper-quadrant tenderness.
Laboratory findings: • Hemoglobin: 113 g/L • Haptoglobin: low • LDH: mildly elevated • Reticulocyte count: 2.2% •
Coombs (direct antiglobulin) test: not provided Ultrasound: Gallbladder contains a 2.2-cm gallstone with clear acoustic
shadow. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia
B. Hereditary spherocytosis
C. Sickle cell disease
D. Disseminated intravascular coagulation
1819. Women just delivered her baby and 30 min later after baby delivery the placenta did not come out , what to do ?
A- manual extraction of the placenta
B- Wait 30 min
C- IV oxytocin
1820. A women in her 30s gets her period every 45 day, and recently her period stopped for 6 months. What is the
most likely cause:
A) hypopituitarism
B) hypothyroidism
C) PCOS
D) Hyperprolactinemia

1821. A 10-days old boy presents in the ER after circumcision with 5-hours of bleeding from the operation site, what is
the best step to do? Had high PTT
A. Applying pressure on the operation site
B. exploratory the tissue
C.
D. Reassure parents
1822. A 40 to 45 year-old man undergoes colonoscopy, which reveals a polyp in the colon. Histopathologic
examination shows a tubular adenoma measuring 1.5 cm in size. During the procedure, the surgeon remove 1.3 cm of
the lesion. When should the next colonoscopy screening be performed?
A) 3–6 months
B) Every 3 years
C) Every 5 years
D) No screening needed
1823. A 30-year-old man underwent a colonoscopy, during which a polyp was removed. When should the next
colonoscopy be performed?
A. After 3-6 months
B. After 3 years
C. After 10 years
D. No further colonoscopy is required
1824. A patient presented with infrequent anal bleeding did a colonoscopy that revealed one polyp size 1.5cm and a
biopsy showed tubular adenoma 1.2 cm. Interval o f colonoscopy ?
A- No need
B- 6 months
C- 3 years
D- 5-10 years
1825. A 40 to 45 year-old man undergoes colonoscopy, which reveals a polyp in the colon. Histopathologic
examination showsa tubular adenoma measuring 1.5 Cm in size. During the procedure, the surgeon remove 1.3 cm of
the lesion. When should the next colonoscopy screening be performed?
A) 3-6 months
B) Every 3 years
C) Every 5 years
D) No screening needed
1826. A 42 year patient came with mild PR bleeding, there is no history of anything, no Dm, no HTN bla bla
Colonoscopy show : 1.5 cm polyp sigmoid

Histopathology : tubular adenoma ﺎﮭﯾﻓ هروﻣا ﮫﺳﯾوﻛ ﮫﻧا ﮫﻣﻠﻛ اوﺑﺗﻛ هوﺿرﺑ Which of the following true about the follow up of
endoscopy?
1) 3-6 months
2) 3 years
3) 10 years
4) No need for follow up of endoscopy
1827. 45 man, i forgot his presentations, he did a colonoscopy: Polyps I t was resected Histopathology: Polyp tubular
adenoma When he should do colonoscopy again? (They did not mention how many polyps, there was description of
how he presented but it wasn't urgent critical
A- 3-6 month
B- 3 years
C- 10 years
D- no need
1828. 42-year-old patient undergoes colonoscopy for evaluation of gastrointestinal symptoms. A 1.3 cm colonic polyp
is identified and removed. Histopathology reveals a tubular adenoma. What is the most appropriate follow-up
colonoscopy interval?
A . After 10 years
B. Every 3 months (not sure of that)
C. Not needed
D. After 3 years
1829. Patient did sigmoid polyp resection on Histopathology found to be Tubular adenoma, when to do colonoscopy
after procedure?
A- 3-6 months
B- 6 months
C- Yearly
D- 3 year
1830. 43male have family history o f colon cancer underwent sigmoidoscopy for polyp removal Histopathology
showed tubular adenoma 1,3 cm completely removed ..how to follow?
A- 3-6 month
B- 3 years
C- 5 years
D- no need
1831. Patient did a colonoscopy 1 polyp size 1.5cm and a biopsy showed tubular adenoma. Interval of screening?
A No need
B 6 months

C 3 years
D 5-10 years
1832. A 55-year-old man with type 2 diabetes mellitus is currently taking the maximum tolerated dose of a statin for
dyslipidemia. His recent lipid profile shows LDL slight elevated What is the most appropriate next step in addition of
lifestyle modification ?
A) Stop statin and start fibrates
B) Add ezetimibe to the current statin therapy
C) Switch to a lower dose of statin and monitor
D) Reassure and continous same
1833. A E-research group (E for electronic) wnated to see the effect of 2 different NSAIDS and their effects on Gastritis
symptoms which of the following will make this research ethically lacking( not written like this, but the same idea)
A. -Participants can’t leave the study
B. -Collecting the data will be hard
C. -consent can’t be fully insured
D. -Privacy Could Be Invaded
1834. 52 year old male medically free came to the clinic complaining of red urine for 2 days associated with right flank
pain, no dysuria no fever no other symptoms On examination: right flank tenderness and palpable rectal prostate (
written like this) Urine culture : negative Urine analysis: + erythrocyte Nitrate: absent WBC: absent What is the most
appropriate next investigation :
A. Urine cytology
B. CT-KUB
C. Retrograde urethrogram
D. cystoscopy
1835. A 5-year-old child came with SOB was playing with coins X ray ; a coin in the trachea Definitive management ?
A- Reassurance
B- Observation
C- Serial x rays
D- Bronchoscopy
1836. 12-year-old patient presents with a 4-hour history of right sided lower abdominal pain. Examination confirms a
slightly elevated, tender right testis. The lie of the testis is horizontal with no redness or edema of the scrotum. Which
of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Oral analgesics
B. Oral abx
C. Doppler ultrasound
D. Scrotal exploration

1837. 15 years worker in chemical factory want to screen for cancer, what is the most sensitive test?
A-cell transformation
B-AMES
C-Unscheduled DNA
D-cytogenic
1838. 4 years old boy, developed large neck swelling on the left side. On exam it is large 10cm in size, US FNA showed
clear lymphatic fluid What is the appropriate management?
A- Surgery
B- Observation
C- Chemotherapy
D- Radiotherapy
1839. Patient on 3 day of chemotherapy suddenly found arrested code blue done and shifted to the ICU. What is the
cause of sudden event?
a) sepsis
b) Arrhythmia
c) pulmonary embolism
d) acute stroke
1840. Severe left lower leg pain for 6 hours When examined there’s no pulse What’s source of thrombus ?
A- Lt atrium
B- Lt ventricle
C- Thoracic aorta
D- Abdominal aorta
1841. A pregnant woman with preeclampsia has just delivered and has a lax uterus with moderate postpartum
hemorrhage. Physical examination reveals no laceration or retained product of conception. Which of the following
medical therapies is most recommended?
A. 5 units of oral oxytocin
B. 0.2 mg intravenous ergometrine
C. 0.5 mg intramuscular ergometrine
D. 20 units oxytocin in a 500 mL of D5W given intravenously
1842. Patient just got in MVA. He responded to 500ml saline. Complains of lower abdominal pain( pelvic region). No
extrenal bleeding. Fast is positive for free fluid in abdomen. Now he is stable, What’s the best INITAL investigation
now?
A+B is irrelevant

C. Plain pelvic x-ray
D. Retrograde urethrogram
1843. A man presented with trauma to his chest complains of severe pain in his chest , he has severe tenderness on
the chest with multiple bruises, during initial assessment the airways are patent and clear, he is alert and conscious
but his chest wall is unstable when he moves or tries to take a deep breath and bruising in his right chest. Air sounds
present bilaterally clear . Vital signs normal apart from saturation 86%. What is the most appropriate management?
A. IV analgesia
B. Mechanical ventilation
C. Chest tube
D. Emergency Thoracotomy
1844. Patient presented with dyspnea due to community acquired pneumonia, the patient unable to complete sentence
. Ph was 7.1 with hypercapnia and hypoxia . What is the management ?
A- Elective intubation
B- Initiate BIPAP 100% Oxygen
C- Iv bicarbonate
1845. Patient did Hip arthroplasty Developed AMS Shws wad on N5W (no mention on the amount ofI VF given) Seurm
Na: 125 Seurm osmolarity: 266 Urine Na: was mildly high What's the Dx ? No mention of volume status!!!
A: cerebral salt wasting
B: SIADH
C: Central diabetes insipidus
D: N5W induced hyponatremia
1846. Looong stem with many investigations of SLE with three months hx of SOB raised JVP LLO and crepitation
Diagnosis
Constrictive pericarditis
Liver failure
renal failure
1847.

1848. Pt came after road traffic accident, was stable but suddenly desaturated spo2:~ 88% Chest X ray : was NORMAL
What you will do next?
-Repeat chest-X ray
-do abdominal us
-ABG
1849. Pt came after road traffic accident, was stable but suddenly desaturated spo2:~ 88% Chest X ray : was NORMAL
What you will do next?
-Repeat chest-X ray AFTER 1 HOUR
-do abdominal us
-ABG
1850.
1851.

1852.
A 60-year-old man is found to have elevated blood pressure during a routine checkup. Не has no symptoms, and
physical examination is unremarkable. ECG, CBC, electrolytes, renal function tests, and urine analysis are normal.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next option in management?
A. Request echocardiogram
B. Start antihypertensive medication
C. Perform ambulatory blood pressure measurement
D. Repeat office blood pressure measurement in 3 months
1853. A 65-year-old man was brought to the Emergency Room by his wife after she noticed he was confused and
behaving in a strange way. He had no fever, cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, headache, abdominal pain,
vomiting, or loss of consciousness. He is known to have type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and
osteoarthritis, and is on insulin, metformin, candesartan, hydrochlorothiazide, aspirin, and atorvastatin. Examination
reveals that he is conscious but disoriented. Left leg power is 2/5, while the other limbs are 5/5. There is decreased
sensation in the left leg. Other neurological exams are normal. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for
his symptoms and signs?
A. Migraine
B. Right MCA stroke
C. Right ACA stroke
D. Basilar artery stroke
1854. A 22-year-old woman presents with recurrent seizures and cognitive dysfunction. She is subsequently
diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely cause of her
hyponatremia?
A. Salt-wasting nephropathy
B. Excessive water consumption
C. Increased consumption of soft drinks
D. Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion

1855. A 26-year-old man with type I diabetes mellitus on insulin presents to the clinic for regular follow-up. He is
asymptomatic (see lab results). Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment? BP:150/90
A. Diuretics
B. Calcium channel blockers
C. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents
D. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor
1856.
1857. A 25-year-old primigravida presents at 15 weeks of gestation to the antenatal visit where blood and urine
investigations were requested. Which of the following is the most expected finding?
A. 20-25% increased hematocrit
B. 40-45% decreased hematocrit
C. 20-25% increase in total blood volume
D. 40-45% increase in total blood volume
1858. A 23-year-old woman primigravida presents at 27 weeks' gestation with vaginal bleeding. She undergoes a
transvaginal ultrasound showing a placenta previa. Which of the following is the most likely associated feature?
A. Coagulopathy
B. Painful vaginal bleeding
C. Postcoital vaginal spotting
D. Profuse first episode of vaginal bleeding
1859. A 35-year-old G3 P2002 woman presents to the clinic near term. Ultrasound demonstrates that the fetal head is
in the fundus, the fetal spine is parallel to the mother's spine, with extended knees and flexed hips. Both arms are
flexed at the elbows. Which of the following is the most appropriate description of fetal presentation?
A. Frank breech
B. Complete breech
C. Compound breech
D. Incomplete breech
1860. A 60-year-old menopausal woman presents with recent on-and-off vaginal bleeding. Which of the following is
the most common cause of her complaint?
A. Endometrial cancer
B. Endometrial polyр

C. Endometrial atrophy
D. Endometrial mucosal fibroid
1861. A 46-year-old woman is complaining of heavy menstruation lasting for 14 days every period. She is morbidly
obese and has type 2 diabetes mellitus (see lab results and report). Ultrasound: Endometrial thickness of 18 mm.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next management step?
A. Pelvic CT
B. Pelvic MRI
C. Hysteroscopy
D. Clinical endometrial sample
1862. A 20-year-old woman came to the clinic for prenatal care. She missed her period for the last 6-8 weeks. Home
pregnancy test was positive 2 weeks back and negative before that. Her periods were irregular and she is unsure of the
last day of her menstrual period. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step for dating her
A. Ultrasound now
B. Quantitative BhCG
C. Wait 3-4 weeks then do an ultrasound
D. Counting from the positive urine pregnancy test
1863. A 28-year-old woman presented with mild pelvic pain and spotting. She was diagnosed with an ectopic
pregnancy and offered medical management. Which of the following is the most appropriate medication to treat this
patient?
A. Oxytocin
B. Carboprost
C. Misoprostol
D. Methotrexate
1864. A 31-year-old woman G2 P1 L1 had an uneventful pregnancy and went into spontaneous vaginal delivery. She
delivered a healthy boy weighing 3000 g. After placental delivery, she started to bleed heavily. Which of the following is
the most appropriate initial step in managing this patient?
A. Start blood transfusion with O negative blood
B. Send blood tests and manage accordingly
C. Take her to the operating room for surgical management
D. Call for help and make sure there is cross-matched bloop
1865.

1866. An 18-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Room with mild vaginal bleeding. Her last menstrual period
was 9 weeks ago. Examination revealed the uterus is palpable, soft, and reaching to just above the symphysis pubis.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next investigation?
A. Abdominal X-ray
B. MRI of the pelvis
C. Pelvic ultrasound
D. CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
1867. A 22-year-old primigravida who is Rh-negative delivered an Rh-positive infant. She received routine prophylactic
Rh immunoglobulin at 28 weeks of gestation. What dose of anti-D immunoglobulin should she receive after delivery?
A. 300 mg
B. 1000 mg
C. 2000 mg
D. No need for anti-D immunoglobulin
1868. A 23-year-old woman, a known case of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, delivered at 39 weeks of gestation,
and her delivery was complicated with postpartum hemorrhage. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Cryoprecipitate
B. Fresh frozen plasma
C. Packed red blood cells
D. Platelet concentrate infusion
1869. A 33-year-old pregnant woman at 36 weeks of gestation presented with vaginal itching, burning, and irritation.
Examination revealed a thick discharge with the appearance of cottage cheese in the vagina. Which of the following is
the most appropriate management?
A. Oral antifungal
B. Topical antiviral
C. Topical estrogen
D. Topical antifungal
1870. A newly married woman is presented to the gynecology clinic for a routine examination and checkup. Which of
the following has the highest diagnostic value?
A. Vaginal inspection
B. General appearance
C. Abdominal examination
D. Pelvic digital examination

1871.
1872. A 30-year-old G5P4 woman presents in labor at 37 weeks of gestation. Examination revealed the cervix is found
to be 10 cm dilated and the vertex is at -3 station. Cardiotocography shows that the baseline is 90 beats per minute,
accelerations were present, good variability with recurrent late decelerations present. The uterine contractions are
regular and strong, occurring at a rate of 4 in 10 minutes. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Start oxytocin
B. Instrumental delivery
C. Emergency cesarean section
D. Reassurance and reassessment
1873. A 28-year-old primigravida presents in labor at 37 weeks of gestation. Examination revealed the cervix is found
to be 10 cm dilated and the head is at +3 station. Cardiotocography shows that the baseline is 120 beats per minute,
accelerations were present, good variability, anda prolonged deceleration was noted for the last 7 minutes. The uterine
contractions are regular and strong. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Observation
B. Start oxytocin
C. Instrumental delivery
D. Emergency cesarean section
1874. A 40-year-old G8P7 woman presents in active labor at 40 weeks of gestation. Examination revealed the cervix
was found to be 7 cm dilated. Cardiotocography shows a baseline of 120 beats per minute, no decelerations, and poor
variability with recurrent variable decelerations. The uterine contractions are regular and strong, occurring at a rate of
4 in 10 minutes. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Start oxytocin
B. Forceps delivery
C. Emergency Cesarean section
D. Reassurance and reassessment

1875. A 50-year-old woman presented to the clinic with prolonged and heavy menstruation for the last 8 months. She
underwent an endometrial biopsy. Endometrial biopsy: Presence of endometrial hyperplasia with atypia. Which of the
following is the most appropriate management?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Chemotherapy
C. Radiotherapy
D. Progesterone therapy
1876. A 45-year-old otherwise healthy woman presents to the clinic complaining of amenorrhea for the last 18 weeks.
Her periods prior to this were all regular. Ultrasound: Presence of a snowstorm pattern within the uterine cavity. Which
of the following is the most appropriate test to reach the diagnosis?
A. Human chorionic gonadotropin level
B. Alpha-fetoprotein level
C. CA 125 level
D. CEA level
1877. 68-year-old man presented complaining of abdominal pain, vomiting, and jaundice. Labs: liver profile all high &
CA19-9 very high. What is your diagnosis? Options included: . CA19:510
Liver tumor .
Cancer of head of pancreas
Q: Patient with jaundice, dark urine, pale stool and weight loss. found to have hugely distended gall bladder
High bilirubin
Elevated liver enzymes
GGT 213
Ca 19- 9 502
What is the cause?
A. Mirriazi syndrome
B. Carcinoma of the head of the pancrease
C. Distal common bile duct obstruction
Q: 68-year-old Male patient was complaining of yellowish discoloration ,epigastric pain ,dark urine , pale stool and
weight
loss. On examination the patient was jaundiced and on palpation tenderness in the epigastric region and right upper
quadrant. The gallbladder was palpable and tender.
Labs showed
• Elevated liver enzymes
high total and direct bilirubin
high ALP

• GGT 213
CA19-9 : 502
Ultrasound showed hugely dilated common bile duct and gallbladder.
Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Mirizzi's syndrome
B. Liver metastasis
C. Distal common bile duct obstruction
D. Cancer of the head of the pancreas
Answer: D. Cancer of the head of the pancreas
1878. A 34-year-old woman presented with a 2-month history of jaundice and upper abdominal discomfort. She is a
known case of SLE on hydroxychloroquine. She also gave a history of pruritus and fatigue. Clinical examination
revealed obesity and hepatomegaly. US Abdomen: Showed enlarged liver with bright coarse echogenicity. Viral
Hepatitis: Negative. ANA: 1:640 (High). Liver Biopsy: Interphase hepatitis with plasma cells. Which of the following is
the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Prednisolone
B. Methotrexate
C. Vitamin E with weight loss
D. Ursodeoxycholic acid
A 34-year-old woman presented with 2-months history of jaundice and upper abdominal discomfort. She is known
case of SLE on hydroxycholorquine. She also gave history of pruritis and fatigue. Clinical examination revealed obesity
and hepatomegaly (see lab results and reports) Test Result Normal Values
Direct bilirubin 32 1.5-6.5 mol/L
Total bilirubin 43 3.5-16.5 mol/L
Aspartate aminotransferase 654 12-40 IU/L Alanine aminotransferase 734 5-40 IU/L Alkaline phosphatase 129 39-117
IU/L Gamma glutamyltransferase 60 6 to 37 IU/L
Random Glucose 7 3.9-5.5 mmol/L
Globulin 43 21-36 g/L
US Abdomen: Showed enlarged liver with bright coarse echogenicity. Viral Hepatitis Negative. ANA: 1:640
Liver Biopsy: Inter phase hepatitis with plasma cells.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Prednisolone
B. Methotrexate
C. Vitamin e with weight loss
D. Ursodeoxycholic acid
Answer: A(MG)

1879. A 26-year-old primigravida presented at 34 weeks of gestation with eclamptic seizures. The seizures were
controlled, and her blood pressure was brought down by antihypertensive medications. Which of the following is the
most appropriate next step in management?
A. Observation
B. Discharge home
C. Wait till 37 weeks, then deliver
D. Arrange for delivery immediately
1880.
1881. A 39-year-old woman presented with heavy menorrhagia and pelvic pressure with Lower limb heaviness and
edema . Pelvic ultrasound confirms the presence of uterine fibroid. What is the most likely location of this fibroid?
A. Cervical
B. Sub-Serosal
C. Intramural
D. Submucosal
1882.
1883.

1884.
1885.
1886. A 30-year-old PG at 30 weeks of gestation with severe preeclampsia complaining of right upper quadrant
abdominal pain. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Esophagitis
B. Pancreatitis
C. Gastric ulcer
D. Tension of the liver capsule
Answer: D

1887. A 28-year-old G4 P3 AO at 12 weeks of gestation with a prior history of preeclampsia and fetal growth
restriction presented to the Antenatal Clinic. Which of the following will most likely reduce the risk of growth
restriction and preeclampsia?
A. Aspirin
B. Progesterone
C. Multivitamins
D. Ferrous sulfate
Answer: A
1888. A 23-year-old primigravida presents to the Emergency Room at 35 weeks of gestation complaining of decreased
fetal movement for the last few hours. Examination revealed the cervix is 1 cm dilated and the head is at -2 station.
Cardiotocography shows that the baseline is 160 beats per minute with good accelerations, good variability, and early
decelerations. The uterine contractions are mild and regular. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Discharge home
B. Cesarean section
C. Augmentation of labor
D. Observation and continuous CTG monitoring
Answer: D
1889. A 30-year-old GS P3013 woman presented in labor at term. She had a vaginal delivery complicated by abruption
placenta. She was then noted to have significant uterine bleeding. The team in charge noted she had bleeding from
multiple venipuncture sites. Which of the following is the best next step in management?
A. Coagulopathy correction
B. Internal iliac ligation
C. Packing the uterus
D. B-Lynch suture
Answer: A
1890. A 27-year-old woman presented at full term at labor, she was having uncontrolled diabetes during this
pregnancy. Which of the following neonatal complications will most likely increase?
A. Hyperglycemia
B. Low Hemoglobin
C. Low erythropoietin levels
D. Respiratory distress syndrome

1891. A 30-year-old, 12 weeks pregnant woman presented to the Emergency Room with vaginal bleeding. Examination
revealed her fundal height corresponded with 19 weeks of gestation. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Partial mole
B. Complete mole
C. Threatened abortion
D. Abdominal pregnancy
Answer: B
1892. A 24-year-old primigravida presents at 12 weeks gestation to an antenatal visit. Blood electrolytes and renal
function tests were requested 3 days earlier. Which of the following is the most expected finding on her blood tests?
A. A fall in serum creatinine level
B. An increase of plasma sodium level
C. Increased plasma blood urea nitrogen level
D. Unaffected serum blood urea nitrogen level
1893. A 30-year-old Primigravida is found to have hyperthyroidism during her pregnancy. Which of the following is the
most contraindicated?
A. Propranolol
B. Methimazole
C. Thyroidectomy
D. Radioactive iodine
1894.

1895.
1896. A child with tall stature, long arms and fingers, following up with ophthalmology due to eye problems. On
examination, *he has mental retardation* and skin bruising. What is his diagnosis?
A. Marfan
B. Homocystinuria
1897. Which of the following is the best oxygen delivery system in a patient with Pulmonary Disease?
A. Simple face mask
B. Rebreathing bag
C. Nasal cannula
**D. Venturi mask
1898. patient who signed DNR, after that he had surgery, during the surgery cardiac arrest (in OR) What should you do?
A- respect his DNR
B- start resuscitation
1899. You discussed the case with the physician for DNR of a patient and all agree on DNR, BUT the paperwork still not
completed and the patient arrested on the OR table What to do?
A- Counsel ethics committee
B- Start resuscitation immediately
C- Respect patient wishes and don't resuscitate
1900. patient with lung cancer and end respiratory failure, admitted with exacerbation he experienced a wish of DNR
but his family believes that he will have a chance for recovery, but the "team uncertain about the true wishes of the
patient it is written like this, what should the team prioritize first:
A) family wish
B) CPR immediately
C) Forgotten
D) documented patient preference regarding DNR
1901. Elderly patient with advanced lung cancer presents acute exacerbation, he said to healthcare team please do not
resuscitate or intubate in the future. His family insist to treat their father aggressively, thinking he will able to improve

his condition. Healthcare team uncertain about patient wishes. Which of the following is first priority in this situation?
a- consult ethics board guidance
b- immediate resuscitation without consent
c- family members has privileges superior than patients wishes t
d- documentation of patient wish regarding DNR
1902. Patient with advanced lung cancer and end stage respiratory failure, came with acute exacerbation of his
condition, he has experienced the wish of DNR at the event of further decline, but his family insisted on aggressive
therapy because they believe he will have recovery , the medical team uncertain about the patient's true wish What
should the medical team prioritized at this situation?
A) Consult the ethics abroad for guidance
B) immediate resuscitation without consultation
C) family wishes over previous patient's decision
D) patient's documented preference regarding DNR
1903. A 35-year-old woman presents with unusual vaginal bleeding and a fleshy vaginal mass. She underwent a
suction evacuation for hydatidiform mole. Her beta-hCG level was 870,000 mIU/mL prior to the procedure. She was
followed with weekly beta-hCG levels for 5 weeks, with the following results: 1st week: 576 mIU/mL 2nd week: 350
mIU/mL 3rd week: 180 mIU/mL 4th week: 70 mIU/mL 5th week: 300 mIU/mL Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step?
A. Continue weekly surveillance
B. Administer methotrexate immediately
C. Perform a biopsy to confirm the diagnosis
D. Perform a metastatic workup without biopsy
Answer: D
1904. A child came for a routine check up. He can walk steadily independently, and has an immature pincer grasp.
Says 4-6 words, knows 2 body parts. What is the developmental age in months?
A- 24 months
B- 18 months
C- 15 months
D- 12 months
Q: Babay walking steady gate with wide steps and (rising both arms while walking ) > i think the arm was like this im
sure
from the meaning
A. 8 m
B. 9 m
C. 14 m
D. 15 m

Answer: C
A baby is observed walking independently with a wide-based gait and arms raised for balance. At approximately
what age is a child typically expected to walk independently with a wide-based gait and arms raised for balance?
A. 9 months
B. 12 months
C. 15 months
Answer: B
Q: A child came for a routine check up. He can walk steadily independently, and has an immature pincer grasp. Says
4-6
words, knows 2 body parts. What is the developmental age in months?
A- 24 months
B- 18 months
C- 15 months
D- 12 months
Answer: C
Child walking unsteady with raising hands when walking.
How old is he in months:
A. 15
B. 18
C. 12
D. 24
Answer: C. 12
1905. Baby with immature pincer grip, can say 5 to 6 words, and pointed 2 parts of his body , age in months
A- 12
B- 17
C- 19
D- 24
1906. child can walk alone, steadily. Immature pincer grasp. Say 6-10 words and points to 2 body parts, how old is he
by month?

A. 12
B. 17
C. 19
D. 24
1907. Paedia walk back ward and use to eat spoon and from ﻲﻧﺎﺗو Age in monthا
A. 12 month
B. 15 month
C. 24 month
D. 9 month
1908. A child brought by his mother to well baby clinic. On history and examination Language: say 2-3 words other
than Mama & Dada Fine motor: walks backwards Cognitive: Stacks 2 blocks Social: follow one step command How old
is the child?
A-9 months
B-12 months
C-15 months
D- 24 months
1909. A child is assessed for developmental milestones. Findings include: Gross motor: walks backwards Fine motor:
eats with spoon Language: speaks 5-6 words Social: plays with cubes What is the age in months?
A. 6 months
B. 9 months
C. 15 months
D. 24 months
1910. Child came for routine check up. He can transfer objects hand-to-hand but hasn't developed pincer grasp. What
is the developmental age in months?
A. 24 months
B. 18 months
C. 15 months
D. 12 months
1911. While at the clinic, an infant craw toward the doctor, rolls over, sits briefly, transfers objects from hand to hand
and grasps objects using his radial palm. The infant is unable to use a pincer grasp. What is the approximate age in
months?
A. 3
B. 5
C. 7

D. 9
1912. An infant lies with his head to one side and raises his head slightly, but the head lags when pulling up to a sitting
position. The infant smiles when involved in social interactions and follows moving objects 180 degrees, but does not
attempt to reach for them. What is the approximate developmental age in weeks?
A. 4
B. 8
C. 12
D. 16
1913. A newborn who is following objects 180 degrees, no head lag when pulled to sitting position, social smiling. Age
by weeks?
A) 4 y
B) 8
C) 12
D) 16
1914. Young male ( around 20) Pt presented after he has a blunt abdominal trauma CT : there was Extravasation
around the left kidney What are most appropriate step in management ?
A. Left Nehprosectomy
B. Angioemoblization t
C. Give fluid and observe
1915. Female pt presented with axillary mass 3x3 on examination the mass was soft and movable Next appropriate
step in management
A. bilateral mammogram
B. Core biopsy
C. Reassurance
D. Sorry don’t remember
1916. 32 yo Pregnant women G3P2 at 28 weeks came to the clinic complaining of right breast mass which first
noticed 4 months ago, on examination you find round, soft and mobile , movable, right breast mass. No skin change
What most appropriate next step or ( management? )?
A- Bilateral mammogram
B- Bilateral breast US
C- FNA
D- Reassurance , and reassess after delivery
1917. A 32-year-old woman a 28-week pregnant presents with an enlarging right breast mass that has been present
for 4 months and is associated with mild pain. Physical examination confirmed a 3 x 2 cm *firm movable* mass not

associated with skin changes or enlarged axillary lymph nodes. Which of the following is the most appropriate next
step in management?
A. Fine needle aspiration
B. Bilateral breast ultrasound
C. Bilateral diagnostic mammography
D. Reassure and reassess after delivery
1918. 23 year old presented with abdominal distention and tenderness was diagnosed with bowel obstruction He hax
no medical or surgical history What is the cause of the distention ?
A. hernia
B. Adhesions
C. Meckel’s diverticulum
D. Don’t remember but was irrelevant
1919. An elderly patient with end-stage metastatic cancer (I don't remember the type of the cancer) She is in palliative
care and l started to get aggressive and confused, and the staff couldn't couldn't calm her down. What's the best drug
to give her?
A. haloperidol ( with a dose)
B. Lorazepam
1920. A pregnant lady at term presented at labor and delivered a healthy child with 3.5 kilogram. After that, the
placenta didn't deliver and she is starting to bleed a large amount of blood What's the best drug to give her for her
postpartum hemorrhage?
A. Propofol
B. Misoprostol
C. nifedipine
D. Magnesium sulfate
1921. A 12-year-old patient was playing in his grandfather's farm presents to the clinic with diarrhea, vomiting, miosis,
bronchoconstriction, sweating, and excessive salivation. Which of the following is the treatment
A. Atropine
1922. Pediatric patient presented in ER with fever and barky cough a long senario but he was in distress Bp was 80/60
, Oxygen was 80% What is the appropriate initial management?
A. oxygen and antibiotic
B. dexamethasone (with dose 0.6 or something )
C. Some type of intubation in the OR
Q: 8yrs old came with Cough and fever (sign of croup).. the child look WELL setting in his mother lap .. on examination
there

is retraction of suprasternal and stridor .. best next step or initial (im not sure):
A. Intubate (just without er or or)
B. Dexamesathone 0.6 IM
Answer: B. Dexamesathone 0.6 IM
1923. Pt present after a MVA with loss of consciousness multiple fracture with sever bleeding and his mouth is full og
blood Best way to insure patent airway
A. Tracheostomy
B. Cricothyroidotomy
C. Endotracheal
D. Nasopharyngeal airway
1924.
Answer: C. Traceostomy
1925. A mother brings her 6-month-old baby with complaints of pancytopenia and organomegaly. Labs has low
Hemoglobin What is the most likely type of leukemia?
A. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
B. Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
C. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
D. Acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia
1926. you can examine newborn right reducible inguinal hernia, high raising testies. Left inguinal hernia with no
swelling
A. observation
B. Herniotomy
C. hernia repair with mesh

D. wait till he reaches 6 years
Q: you can examine newborn right reducible inguinal hernia, high raising
testies. Left inguinal hernia with no swelling - literally written like that it was confusing
Asked About Management:
observation
Herniotomy
hernia repair with mesh
wait till he reaches 6 years
1927. When do Screening for paedia for Irion defiency anemia?
A. 6 month
B. 12 month
C. 18 month
D. 24 month
1928. Paedia with febrile convulsion her mother give paracetamol every 4h for 3days cae c/o jundice whate is case
A. Hepatitis b
B. Paracetamol toxicity
1929. Paedia ingestion of 20 tablets of iron how to do
A. Obsevetion
B. Gastric lavage
C. Deferoxamine
1930.
1931. Man came to alhaj not receive meningococcal vaccine what to give Now For prevention?

A. Ciprofloxacin
B. Ceftriaxone
1932. Old pt want to go for hajj he didn’t take any Prevention meningococcal vaccine what the best method of
prophylaxis antibiotic
- rifampicin bid for 5 day
- Ceftriaxone for 6 days
- Azithromycin for 3 days
1933. 7-year-old child have neck stiffness and all meningitis symptoms. His CSF was obtained, and Gram stain
showed Grampositive cocci Which chemoprophylaxis should be offered to his contacts?
A. Rifampicin
B. Ceftriaxone
C. Ciprofloxacin
D. Azithromycin
1934. A pediatric patient has been diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. His brother and sister, who live in the
same household, are asymptomatic. Which of the following regimens is appropriate for chemoprophylaxis in these
close contacts?
A. penicillin and rifampin for 1 week
B. Ciprofloxacin single dose
C. penicillin for 1 week
D. IM ceftriaxone 4 doses
1935. 2 year old pt want to go for hajj he didn't take any Prevention meningococcal vaccine what the best method of
prophylaxis antibiotic
A. Cefdinir 5 days BID
B. Rifampicin 2 days BID
C. Ciprofloxacin 3 days BID
D. Ceftriaxone 5 days OD
1936. A newborn infant born from a mother with polyhydramnios presents with excessive salivation along with
coughing and choking with the first oral feeding. An x-rav of the abdomen shows gas in stomach and a nasogastric
tube coiled in the esophagus. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
a. Esophageal atresia
b. Tracheoesophageal fistula
c, Esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF)
d. Omphalocele
e. Gastroschisis

Q: Newborn has bubbling mucus and fluid from the nose after the first feed, xray revealed NGT coiled in
esophageal pouch, which of the following is the diagnosis ?
A. Tracheoesophageal fistula
B. Choanal atresia
C. Tracheomalagia
1937. A newborn presents with excessive drooling, bubbling from the mouth, and an inability to pass a nasogastric
(NG) tube. Xray reveals the NG tube coiled in the upper esophageal pouch. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Hiatus hernia
B. Esophageal atresia
C. Tracheoesophageal fistula
D. Choanal atresia
1938. Newborn has bubbling mucus and fluid from the nose after the first feed, C-xray revealed NGT coiled in
esophageal pouch, which of the following is the diagnosis?
A- Tracheoesophageal fistula
B- Choanal atresia
C- Tracheomalagia
1939. Child Had URTI 2 Days Ago, Presented With Erythematous Rash That Covers The Jaw And Extends To The
Shoulder And Back, WITHOUT Desquamation And Occipital, Posterior Cervical, Post Auricular Lymphadenopathy
(Written In Case Like This):
A. Rubella
B. Adenovirus
C. Measles
D. Erythema Infectiosum
1940. A 6-year-old unvaccinated girl is brought to the clinic by her mother with low-grade fever, rash, and swollen
glands. Her mother reports The child was well until 2 days ago. Then developed mild fever, runny nose, and red eyes
Yesterday, she developed a pink, non-itchy rash that started on the face and then spread to thetrunk and limbs What
the diagnosis?
A. measles
B. rubella
C. epstin parr virus
1941. A 6-year-old child presents with a high-grade fever, malaise, conjunctivitis, coryza, and a cough. A rash of
discrete pink macules recently began on the face and extends to the hands and feet. The child also had small, whitish
spots inside the mouth before the rash appeared. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

A. Toxic shock syndrome
B. Gonococcal bacteremia
C. Measles
D. Rubella
1942. A 5-year-old childis brought to the clinic with a febrile illness with a cough and separate irregularly shaped
(blotchy) rashes. He has not had any routine vaccinations. On physical examination, there is enlarged tender cervical
lymph nodes. There are also erythematous maculopapular rashes behind the ear, face and neck and to a lesser extent
on the trunk. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Chickenpox
B. Measles
C. Mumps
D. Rubella
1943. A child is brought to Paediatric Clinic with cough, fever, rhinorrhoea, malaise, with conjunctival erythema. There
are small, grayish, irregular lesions surrounded by an erythematous base, on the buccal mucus membrane near the
second molar teeth. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Measles
B. Rubella
C. Parainfluenza
D. Respiratory syncytial infection
1944. A 25-year-old woman is seen in the infertility clinic as a case of primary infertility for 2 years. Her history
revealed that she has had amenorrhea for the last 6 months and only gets menstruation through using withdrawal
bleeding pills. She had investigations repeated twice, performed 3 months apart, and they were all showing the same
results. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. GnRH injections
B. Hormone replacement therapy
C. Induction of ovulation with Clomid
D. Induction of ovulation with gonadotropins
1945. long case, female only gets period when using withdrawal or something pills, Labs (sorry don't remember
numbers i just compared them to reference they put in the q stem) high FSH, low porgesterone, normal TSH or
thyroxine, LH normal, Estradiol or estrogen normal, next step or best management (i don't remember) options:

A. GnRH injection
B. ovulation induction with gonadotropins
C. Hormone replacement therapy
D. Clomid ? (not clomiphene literally, but something similar, maybe its generic name)
1946. female 12 week (yes 12 weeks i remember the number) gestation, investigation shows cystic hygroma in fetus,
next step or bests way to confirm dx?
A. Amniotic fluid sample
B. Chorionic villus
C. rest I don't remember
1947.
1948. A 39-year-old man diagnosed with pancreatic cancer develops a swollen left lower limb during hospitalization.
Examination reveals a tender, erythematous swelling affecting the left leg. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Lymphedema
B. Cellulitis
C. Ruptured Baker's cyst
D. Deep vein thrombosis
1949. A 34-year-old man fell from the roof of a two-story building. On arrival at the emergency department, he is
confused, opens his eyes to sound, and localizes pain with his upper limbs. What is the severity of his brain injury
based on the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS)?
A. Mild
B. Moderate
C. Severe
D. Minimal
1950. Liddle syndrome recall low K, low renin, low aldosterone (each one was low in a separate line, no ratio given)
Answer Is Liddle

1951. pt long standing DM came with 2 day history of WBC 18 with cellulitis tx:
A. ciprofloxacin
B. clindamycin
C. vancomycin
D. Meropenem
1952. A 36-year-old G4 P3003 is admitted in preterm labor at 36+5 weeks with polyhydramnios. Fetal bradycardia is
noted after spontaneous rupture of membranes. Which of the following needs to be excluded by a prompt vaginal
examination?
A. Cord prolapse
B. Breech presentation
C. Placental abruption
D. Shoulder/arm prolapse
1953. A 23-year-old patient at 38 weeks of gestation is in active labor and diagnosed with cord prolapse. Which of the
following is the most expected finding on CTG?
A. Accelerations
B. Late decelerations
C. Early decelerations
D. Variable decelerations and bradycardia
1954. Bilateral green discharge recall, there was dilated ducts on mammogram (BI RADS 2) (literally mentioned
BIRADS 2), next step?
A. Reassurance PLUS follow up
B. nipple biopsy
C. CT pelvic
1955. female, recurrent RUQ abdominal pain and diarrhea, RUQ US showed 0.8 polyp, she is bothered by sx, next?
A. Cholecystectomy
B. Conservative
C. imaging after weeks or months
D. maybe Hida scan
1956. Female had vaginal bleeding and abdominal pain, LMP maybe 6 weeks ago?, vital stable, bhCG positive, TVUS
showed nothing, diagnosed as ectopic, tx discussed with her and it is decided to start on medical therapy, what is most
appropriate?
A. -MTX

1957. Abd. Pain, anorexia and abd. Distension.... تﺎﺻوﺣﻔﻟا دﻌﺑ ﺎﮭھدﻧﻋ وﻘﻟو Bilateral ovarian cancer... CA125 90(normal 30)
Wt Type of cancer?
A. epithelia
B. germ cell tumor
C. gonadplastoma
1958.
1959. A 2-year-old child weighing 12 kg is admitted to the pediatric ward for observation due to vomiting and poor oral
intake. The medical team decides to initiate maintenance IV fluids. What is the appropriate daily fluid requirement for
this child?
A. 1200 mL
B. 1100 mL
C. 1500 mL
D. 1000 mL
1960. A 14-month-old girt is brought to the clinic with vomi7ng and diarhoea. The mother reports her child is less
ac7ve. On examina7on, she has mild dehydra7on with an es7mated fluid deficit of 5% (see lab results). Weigh 10 Kg
Test Result Normal Values Sodium 128 134-146 mmol/L Potassium 3.3 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Chloride 94 97-108 mmol/L
Bicarbonate 12 21-28 mmol/L How much intravenous fluid (mi/day) should be given?
A. 1000
B. 1250
C. 1500
D. 1750
1961. Ovarian cyst with fatty material:
A. Dermoid cyst
B. Granulosa cell tumor
C. Thecoma
D. Fibroma
1962.

1963. Female Patient complaining of dysmenorrhea which is interfer in evaluation of history
Family
Menstrual
Medical
Surgical
1964. A 37-week pregnant woman came for ECV (External Cephalic Version). Which factor affects the result / what is
the most important thing to confirm before ECV?
A. Mother fasting > 6 hours
B. Check gestational age by ultrasound
C. Fetal CTG Before ECV
1965. A patient has multiple liver injuries after an accident. What is the management?
A. Liver packing
B. Small arteries ligation
C. Ligation of right hepatic artery
1966. An unstable trauma pa7ent has confirmed mul7ple liver lacera7ons. Which of the following is the most
appropriate management?
A. Right hepatectomy
B. Perihepatic packing
C. Right hepatic artery ligation
D. Individual liga7on of the bleed Pass
1967. A pregnant woman at 30 weeks gestation — which vaccine should be given?
A. Varicella
B. MMR
C. Influenza
1968. newborn with Maple Syrup ,What to give

Q: Maple syrup urine disease
Restrict leucine, isoleucine and valine
1969. A 23-year-old primigravida presented at 31 weeks of gestation with preterm labor. Examination revealed, the
uterus is contracting and the cervix is closed. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Nifedipine
B. Terbutaline
C. Indomethacin
D. Magnesium sulfate
1970. A 70-year-old man complains that he cannot remember things, sometimes forgetting names of friends, famous
community figures, and telephone numbers. His wife fears he has Alzheimer's disease. Physical examination is
unremarkable apart from tender knee joints (see lab results). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Alzheimer's disease
B. Lewy body dementia
C. Benign forgetfulness
D. Hypertensive encephalopathy
1971. Lady in the 70s has type 2 DM on metformin 1 g BID had problems in naming and calling things lately.For
example, she says animal instead of "cat" when she sees a cat. She has no memory impairment or personality
changes. Her family is worried about her. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Vascular dementia
B. Alzheimer's dementia
C. Frontotemporal dementia
D. B12 deficiency with cognitive features
1972. Q: pain two day before and during the cycle on NSAID
A- OCPs
B- IUD

1973. An 18-year-old man involved in burn accident, he has 2nd degree burn to his both lower limbs. Weight 70 kg
Using Parkland formula, which of the following is most appropriate fluid resuscitation?
A. Lactate ringer's 200 ml/hr for 24 hrs
B. Normal saline 1L bolus then 120ml/hr
**C. Lactate ringer's 5 L over 1st 6 hrs then 5 L over next 16 hrs
D. Lactate ringer's 2.5 L over 1st 6 hrs then 2.5 L over the next 16 hrs
1974. Child was eating seeds and developed stridor, upon examination there was diminished air entry at right lung.
(They gave a chext x-ray showing darker and hyperinflation of right lung)... it was obvious How to manage?
- lateral neck x ray
- laryngoscopy
rigid bronchoscopy
something related to trachea
Q: A family brought their kid who has fever, cough, and runny nose. Symptoms started after
hx of choking after he ingested of some seed. Chest exam: dec RT side breathing sound.
X ray pictures was shown . What is the next thing to do?
A. epinephrine subcutaneous
B. bronchoscopy
C. Send home with antipyretic and nasal fluid
1975. Case of HBV Hx of blood transfusion 10 years ago HBs Ag +ve IgG +ve HBe Ag +ve ::
A : Acute active hepatitis B
B : Chronic inactive hepatitis B
1976. A 24-year-old man recovers from an attack of severe pancreatitis. He has mild epigastric discomfort, sensation
of bloating, and loss of appetite. Examination reveals an epigastric fullness .. us : cyst form in lesser sac Diagnosis:
Pancreatic cancer
Pancreatic pseudocyst
1977. A 35-year-old Indian man presents to the Emergency Department with lethargy, weight loss, and headache for 3
months. He has a history of contact with a tuberculosis patient several years ago. His neurological and ophthalmologic
examination are unremarkable. He has a positive polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (see lab
results). Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol
B. Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and diuretics
C. Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and acyclovir
D. Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and dexamethasone

Answer: D
1978. A 42-year-old man presents to the Emergency Room with productive cough, fever, and dyspnea for 3 days. Chest
examination reveals evidence of consolidation at the right lower lung field. Baseline laboratory studies, two blood
cultures, and sputum samples for cultures and gram stain are obtained. Which of the following is the most appropriate
empiric antimicrobial regimen?
A. Meropenem and azithromycin
B. Ceftriaxone and azithromycin
C. Vancomycin and azithromycin
D. Oseltamivir and azithromycin
1979. MVA , fractured 3 ribs Patient at first stable Then become distressed Chest clear , :
A. flail chest
B. cardiac tamponade
C. pulmonary contusion
1980. A 20-year-old primigravida presented at 31 weeks of gestation with a headache and blurred vision. Urine
examination by dipstick shows ++ proteinuria. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Preeclampsia
B. Renal disease
C. Pyelonephritis
D. Chronic hypertension
1981. A 27 years old healthy male presented with right sided weakness. He has significant femur fracture 1 week ago.
2 days ago has pulmonary embolism. Brain imaging shows left cerebral infarction. Which of the following is the most
likely the cause of his presentation?
A. Atrial fibrillation
B. Carotid artery stenosis
C. Patent foramen ovale
D. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
1982. A 23-year-old primigravida is admitted for induction of labor at term. On examination, the cervix is closed and
3.5 cm long. Which of the following is the most appropriate agent to be given for cervical ripening?
A. Methergine
B. Methyldopa
C. Vaginal progesterone
D. Vaginal prostaglandin E₂

1983. A 32-year-old healthy woman had neck ultrasound to evaluate lipoma; incidentally, there was right thyroid lobe
2.3 cm solid hypoechoic nodule (see lab results and report). Test Result Normal Values Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone
2.3 0.4-5.0 pU/mL. Thyroxine (T4 free serum) 11.3 8.5 - 15.2 pmol/L. Fine Needle Aspiration: Follicular neoplasm,
Bethesda 4. Which of the following is most appropriate management?
A. Nodule excision
**B. Hemithyroidectory
C. Repeat US in 3 months
D. Radiofrequency ablation
1984. RTA case with facial injuries Desaturating Next step?
A) Endotracheal intubation
B) cricothyroidotomy
C) ?
D) Nasopharyngeal
1985. day 6/7 Post OP (appendectomy i think) fever ,dry wound
A-wound swab
B-throat swap
C-Re-open the wound
D-review med
Q: A 45-years old female in 5th day post-hysterectomy the patient have fever, she does not complain of anything
(Literally Written) and the wound is clean. What is your next step of measurement?
A- CBC culture
B- Urinalysis and culture
C- Chest x-ray
D- Review medication
1986. A man underwent a sigmoid resection, On postoperative day 4, he develops feve What Is MOST IMPORTANT
Thing To Do? (or To Assess) (Not Next, Not Most Appropriate) (Don't Remember The Whole Case But It Was Short And
No Exam Findings)
A. Chest X-ray
B. Blood cultures
C. Assess The Wound
D. Review Medications
1987. 10 years old boy presented to the emergency department with fever, headache and sore throat for 2 days, in
examination there were enlarged tonsils with exudate and pharyngeal petechiae. He had enlargement of anterior and
posterior cervical lymph nodes. The rapid strep test was positive . BP: 100/65 T: 39 Others normal What's the most
appropriate next step in management?
A. Oral penicillin V

B. Throat culture
C. Reassurance
D. Missing
1988. pregnant with placenta (Not sure abruption/previa) Postpartum bleeding.. how to prevent it in next pregnancy?(I
don't remember the options but i tried)
A- personal plan: management, risk
B- something about (being ready for complication)
C-deliver at ?
1989. down$ (didn't say down) depressed nasal bridge and Single Palmar Crease.
A- hypothyroidism
B- hypoparathyroid
C- hypopituitary
D- hyperthyroidism
1990. Infant/ child (I think he had cough or pneumonia NOT sure ) received abx and cured, after 3 days Sx back i dot
remember the options
1991.
1992. A 44-year-old woman (P5005) presents to the clinic with an uncomfortable sensation in the vagina for the last
year. She reports pelvic pressure associated with urinary frequency but no urinary leaks or irregular menstruation.
Obstetric history includes 5 term spontaneous vaginal deliveries. She works in loading and unloading heavy boxes.
Examination reveals a large bulging of the anterior vaginal wall. Which of the following is the most appropriate
management?
A. Kegel exercises
B. Vaginal pessary
C. Bladder suspension
D. Anterior colporrhaphy

Answer: D
1993. A 42-year-old P3003 healthy woman presents with heavy prolonged vaginal bleeding over the past 7 months.
Her periods have become longer and progressively heavier, with the last one occurring 15 days ago. Pelvic
examination reveals a small amount of blood in the vaginal vault, normal-sized uterus, and mobile ovaries. (See
reports.) Pelvic ultrasound: Endometrium 13 mm and a 2.2 cm x 1 cm lesion in the uterine cavity. Endometrial biopsy:
Normal histology. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Sonohysterogram
B. Examination under anesthesia
C. Magnetic resonance imaging of the uterus
D. Evaluate hemoglobin level and coagulopathy screening
Answer: A
1994. A 38-year-old woman is scheduled to undergo a myomectomy due to the presence of a large uterine fibroid. The
surgeon is planning to administer medication that will help reduce the size of the uterine fibroid prior to performing the
procedure. Which of the following is the most appropriate medication to use for this purpose?
A. GnRH injection
B. Combined contraceptive pills
C. Intrauterine contraceptive device
D. Oral continuous progesterone therapy
Answer: A
1995. A 20-year-old woman presented with a history of primary infertility for 1 year. She had a
history of scanty irregular cycles with prolonged intervals (see lab results).
Which of the following is the important workup?
A. MRI pelvis
B. TSH serum level
C. Prolactin serum level
D. Chromosomal analysis
Answer: D
1996. A 35-year-old woman is complaining of severe abdominal pain. She is a known case of
primary infertility and underwent embryo transfer 3 weeks ago (see lab results).
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Ovarian torsion
B. Ectopic pregnancy
C. Acute appendicitis
D. Intestinal obstruction
Answer: B

1997. A 36-year-old presented to the Antenatal Clinic for an Ultrasound scan.
Ultrasound: Single viable fetus with significant increased levels of amniotic fluid
(polyhydramnios).
Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Anencephaly
B. Post-term pregnancy
C. Posterior urethral valve
D. Maternal ingestion of NSAID
Answer: A
Q: A 28-year-old Primigravida presented to the Antenatal Clinic for an Ultrasound scan.
Ultrasound: Single viable fetus with significant lower levels of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios).
Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Chorioangioma
B. Duodenal atresia
C. Diabetes mellitus
D. Placental insufficiency
Answer: D
1998.
1999.

2000.
Answer: B TURNER
2001.
Answer: Henoch-schonlein purpura
2002.
2003.

Answer: D. Correct the myth and explain the great benefit of vaccinations
2004.
Answer: B. Maintain a healthy weight
2005.
Answer: D. Transient ischemia attack
2006.

Answer: B. Alzheimer’s disease
2007.
2008.
2009.

2010.
Answer: B. Urine analysis for amylase level
Q: Upper abdominal pain
Pt with upper abdominal pain radiating to the back.
Chest X-ray: pleural effusion.
What test will confirm diagnosis?
A. CRP
B. Repeat liver enzymes in 24 hours
C. Amylase in urine
D. Pleural fluid analysis
Answer: C

2011.
2012.
Answer: C. Hypertonic saline
Q: An Elderly???? Patient 2 Days Post Hip Surgery Developed Confusion And Drowsiness.
During Surgery, He Was Given Hypotonic Fluids D5W
Serum Na: 121
Serum Osm: ~250 (Something In This Range)
Urine Osm: 600
Urine Sodium 46
I Am 100% Sure If EVERY SINGLE Number (Even 2!!! Days Post Operative)
What's The Management (Don't Remember Exact Stem)
No Mention Of Any Seizure Or Any Signs Of Hypo-Na Other Than What I Mentioned Above
A Fluid Restriction & Monitoring

B IV Normal Saline With Furosemide
C IV Hypertonic 3% Saline
Approach To Euvolemic & Hypovolemic Hyponatremia:
(Our Case Is Post-Operative SIADH, Which Is Euvolemic)
A-Acute (<48h) + Symptoms (REGARDLESS TO SEVERITY)→ ALWAYS 3% Saline
B- Chronic (= 48h OR More) + Symptoms→ Assess Symptom Severity
- Mild-Moderate Symptoms Fluid Restriction
- Severe Symptoms→ 3% Saline
2013.
2014.
2015.

2016.
2017.

2018.
2019.

2020.
2021.

2022.
2023. A 67-year-old man presented with a 2-month history of yellowish discoloration of his sclera and
skin with dark urine and pale stool. On examination, he was jaundiced with a palpable distended
gallbladder (see report and lab results)
Test Result Normal Values
Alkaline phosphatase 421 39-117 IU/L
Direct bilirubin 122.3 1.5-6.5 mol/L
Total bilirubin 134.5 3.5-16.5 umol/L
Ultrasound:
Dilated intra and extrahepatic bile ducts with hugely distended gallbladder.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Klatskin tumour
**B. Pancreatic cancer
C. Mirizzis syndrome
D. Common bile duct stone
2024. A 67-year-old man presented with a 2-month history of yellowish discoloration of his sclera and
skin with dark urine and pale stool. On examination, he was jaundiced with a palpable distended
gallbladder (see report and lab results)
Test Result Normal Values
Alkaline phosphatase 421 39-117 IU/L
Direct bilirubin 122.3 1.5-6.5 mol/L
Total bilirubin 134.5 3.5-16.5 umol/L
Ultrasound:
Dilated intra and extrahepatic bile ducts with hugely distended gallbladder.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Klatskin tumour

**B. Pancreatic cancer
C. Mirizzis syndrome
D. Common bile duct stone
2025. A 74-year-old man presented with a 2-month history of vague upper abdominal pain associated with progressive
yellowish discoloration of his skin and sclera and dark urine. On examination, he was jaundiced (see lab result and
report). Test Result Normal Values Alkaline phosphatase 312 39-117 |U/L Direct bilirubin 87 1.5-6.5 mol/L Total
bilirubin 97 3.5-16.5 mol/L Ultrasound: Dilated intrahepatic biliary tree with collapsed gallbladder. Which of the
following is the most likely diagnosis?
**A. Klatskin tumour
B. Mirizzi's syndrome
C. Gallbladder cancer
D. Periampullary tumour
2026.
2027.
2028.

2029.
2030.
2031. IUGR neonate placed under warmer, he is still hypothermic despite warm environment, how to manage
A. IV dextrose
B. Sepsis workup + empirical antibiotics
C. Reassure + change environment ( increase warmer temperature i guess)
D. Skin-to-skin contact
Answer: B
2032. Child 7 years old had febrile seizure which was transferred by the EMD (emergency
medical dispatch). The mother wants to inform the school regarding the child’s
condition. Which of the following is the role of EMD regarding the mother’s concern ?
A- Advice taking consent before sharing the medical information
B- Advice the parents to share the medical information
C- Do not inform them
Answer: B

2033. 10 years old sudden loss of consciousness then regained while running. all physical examination normal except
ejection systolic murmur. What Is the most appropriate test?
A) ECG
B) Echo
C) Chest X-Ray
D) Reassure
Answer: B
2034. 9 year old girl suspected of appendicitis(they stated that), complain of right lower
quadrant pain, no fever no anorexia and no rebound tenderness
WBC 9 What is the best thing to do to avoid missing the diagnosis?
A) Admit and do serial examination and repeat lap in 6-12 hrs
B) CT
C) Discharge patient with given instructions when to come back
Answer: A
2035. Long case with classic presentation of SLE
Asking what is most important initial serology test?
A- Anti-ccp
B- ANA
B- Anti-dsDna
C- Antiphospholipid
Answer: B

2036. A child presented with low grade fever for 2 days then developed of acute onset of stridor What is the most
common cause?
A. Acute epiglottitis
B. Acute tonsilitis
C. Viral laryngotracheitis
Answer: C
2037. Unconscious ectopic pregnancy
Consent take :
1- wait family
2-don’t do laparotomy
3- mange as a case of save living
2038. Radiation exposure After 2 wks , abdominal pain loss of appetite and genralize fatigue
- anaphylactic shock
- malignant pattern
- bone marrow destruction
2039. A 3-year-old child with bronchial asthma on ventolin nebulizer at home as per needs. The mother
expresses concern that the family cannot go out of the home most of the time because the nebulizer
machine need electricity power source. Which of the following is the most appropriate counselling
should be given?

A. Agree and support their decision as the priority is asthma control
B. Find someone to take care of asthmatic child if family goes out of the home
C. Educate with clear instructions inhaler usage and advice to stop nebulizer
D. Find out nebulizer machine with portability feature
2040.
2041. The question I had was about a mother with SLE giving birth to a child, and I couldn't tell if the lab values were
referring to the mother or to the newborn. Regardless, the lab values were as follows: Platelets: 10,000 (normal values
are obviously 150) PT and PTT were both normal They asked what's the next step in management. I forgot to mention
that the baby was having bleeding from venipuncture sites and classic DIC symptoms, but of course the PT and PTT
were normal, so DIC is indeed excluded.
Answer Is Platelet Transfusion
2042.
2043.

2044.
2045. 9 month boy on breast feeding , his mother recently started to introduce solid food , but he is mainly on breast
feeding ,
what you recommend regarding his feeding:
1- iron supplements.
2- folate supplements .
3- vit D supplements .
4- speed up the rate of introduction of the solid food.
Answer: 1- iron supplements.

2046. Pregnant woman developed DIC associated with obstetric complication. Most likely cause?
A. Placenta previa
B. Placental abruption
Answer: B
2047. year-old G4P2 woman with previous postpartum hemorrhage is currently pregnant and worried about
recurrence.
Strongest risk factor for postpartum hemorrhage?
A. Grand multiparity
B. Multiple gestation
C. Macrosomia
D. Previous postpartum hemorrhage
A pregnant woman G7P6 gave birth after labor of 7 hours had post-partum hemorrhage,
what was her most likely risk factor?
A. prolonged labor
B. precipitous labor
C. grand multiparity
Answer: C
2048. Patient with resistant hypertension associated with palpitations, sweating, and headaches. Most definitive
treatment?
A. Renal artery stenting
B. Adrenalectomy
Answer: B. Adrenalectomy
2049. I had a question today about a 2-year-old kid who came with his mother. The chief complaint was that the kid's
grandpa, who lives with them in the same house, was diagnosed with open tuberculosis. She's asking what we should
do for the baby.
The baby's medical history was almost positive for BCG vaccine.
The options were:
A. Reassure because he already had the vaccine
B. Do chest X-ray and PPD and then wait for results.
c. Start them on isoniazid and ethambutol and typical TB treatment.
D. CXR + PPD + Start Latent TB Treatment NOW

Answer: D
2050. Child presented with fever, diarrhea, sunken eyes, poor feeding, hypotension, and capillary refill of 4 seconds.
Which single
finding most strongly indicates immediate admission?
A. Inability to eat solid food
B. Fever
C. Capillary refill 4 seconds
Answer: C
2051. Adult patient presented with meningitis.
No Na mentioned. Most likely causative organism?
A. Streptococcus pneumoniae
B. Listeria monocytogenes
C. Staph
D. E. coli
Answer: B
2052. Patient with bowel obstruction. Most appropriate investigation?
A. Abdominal X-ray
B. Ultrasound
C. Double contrast CT abdomen
D. Colonoscopy
Answer: C
2053.Patient with bowel obstruction. Best initial investigation?
A. Abdominal X-ray
B. CT abdomen
C. Ultrasound
Answer: A
2054. Female in her 50s or 70s with localized LLQ tenderness and pain. Most appropriate
investigation?
A. Colonoscopy

B. CT abdomen
C. Plain X-ray
D. Ultrasound
Answer: B
2055. Best antihypertensive medication after TIA?
A. Metaprolol
B. Ramipril
Answer: B
2056. Female with rapidly enlarging 5 cm breast mass. Biopsy showed stromal cells with
increased mitotic figures. Diagnosis?
A. Fibroadenoma
B. Phyllodes tumor
C. Invasive ductal carcinoma
2057. Female with long history of autoimmune thyroiditis developed thyroid malignancy. Most
likely type?
A. Papillary carcinoma
B. Medullary carcinoma
C. Anaplastic carcinoma
D. Thyroid lymphoma
Answer: D
2058. A 52-year-old woman presented with a 3-month history of a progressive anterior neck
swelling with stridor. She has a 12-year history of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Physical examination
confirmed a diffuse, large, non-tender thyroid swelling with retrosternal extension. A core needle
biopsy was ordered (see reports).
Ultrasound: Diffuse thyroid enlargement, encasing bilateral carotid sheaths.
Histopathology: Malignant thyroid tumour.
Which of the following is the most likely tumour?
A. Follicular
B. Medullary
C. Anaplastic
D. Lymphoma

Answer: D
2059. A 52-year-old woman presented with a recent rapid enlargement of a neck swelling
associated with weight loss. She was diagnosed 25 years ago with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hemorrhagic goiter
B. Thyroid lymphoma
C. Papillary carcinoma
D. Sub-acute thyroiditis
Answer: B
2060. Patient with cervical lymphadenopathy, and hepatomegaly. chest xray hilar
lymphadenopathy, mass in the mid section? Of the lung. Best biopsy option?
A. Liver biopsy
B. Pleural biopsy
C. Transbronchial biopsy
2061.Female stopped smoking 20 years ago. Incidental asymptomatic 1 cm pulmonary
nodule found. Most appropriate management?
A. Follow-up CT after 3–6 months
B. Transbronchial biopsy
C. Immediate surgery
2062. A 55-year-old woman is referred to the clinic because of a 1 cm solitary nodule with sharp
borders in the right lung. The nodule was detected on an abdominal CT performed to evaluate
abdominal pain. She does not have any respiratory complaints. She smoked 20 cigarettes per
day for 10 years but managed to stop smoking 20 years ago.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Follow-up CT in 3-6 months
B. No follow-up needed
C. Transbronchial biopsy
D. Surgical resection
Answer: A

2063. 28-week pregnant female with increased vaginal discharge for 6 hours. Sterile
speculum showed pooling of fluid in posterior fornix. No contractions. Diagnosis?
A. Bacterial vaginosis
B. Candidiasis
C. Normal vaginal secretions
D. Rupture of membranes
Answer: D
2064.60y Postmenopausal woman with stage IA endometrial cancer. Best treatment?
A. Chemotherapy
B. Radiotherapy
C. Progesterone therapy
D. Hysterectomy
Answer: D
2065. Stage IIB cervical cancer. Best treatment?
A. Radical hysterectomy
B. Simple hysterectomy
C. Conization
2066. Initial treatment for Hirschsprung disease?
A. Immediate colectomy
B. Decompression/supportive care
Answer: B
2067. Child with enlarged tonsils and exudate. Brother also sick. Associated runny nose and
conjunctivitis present. Most likely diagnosis?
A. Infectious mononucleosis
B. Adenoviral pharyngitis
C. Streptococcal pharyngitis
2068.

2069. Unvaccinated infant with meningitis. Gram-negative pleomorphic coccobacillus
identified. Organism?
A. Neisseria meningitidis
B. Haemophiles influenzae type b
C. Streptococcus pneumoniae
Answer: B
2070.female 7y old with facial rash and multiple small joint tenderness suggestive of SLE.
Marker of disease activity?
A. ANA
B. Rheumatoid factor
C. Anti-dsDNA
Answer: C
2071. Alcoholic patient with recurrent epigastric pain and multiple admissions. Mildly
elevated amylase. Most likely diagnosis?
A. Biliary colic
B. Chronic pancreatitis
D. Acute cholecystitis
Answer: B
Q: 45 year old man drink alcohol history of chronic epigastric pain. Now complains of epigastric pain for 6 days
Labs normal amylase
Normal wbe

Normal total bilirubin
A- colic (written like this)
B- chronic pancreatitis
Answer: B- chronic pancreatitis
2072. Child with severe epigastric pain, pancreatic edema on ultrasound, amylase 400 lipase
100 something, Best treatment?
A. IV antibiotics and ERCP
B. Analgesia and fluid resuscitation
Answer: B
2073.Patient on warfarin for DVT has INR 6 but no bleeding. Management in addition to
withholding warfarin
A. Vitamin K
B. Fresh frozen plasma
C. Cryoprecipitate
D. repeat INR in 2 days
Answer: D
2074. A 58-year-old woman presents to the follow-up clinic. She is known to have idiopathic
deep venous thrombosis and is on warfarin, which was initiated 6 weeks ago. The examination
is unremarkable (see lab result).
Which of the following is the most appropriate management in addition to withholding warfarin?
A. Administer vitamin K
B. Re-measure INR in 2 days
C. Administer fresh frozen plasma
D. Administer prothrombin complex concentrate
Answer: B
2075. Patient with severe hypertension and anterior epistaxis while on aspirin. Imaging
normal. Most appropriate next step?
A. Facial CT
B. Refer to cardiology
C. Nasal endoscopy

Answer: C
2076. Patient with ruptured appendix and localized abscess. Most appropriate management?
A. Immediate appendectomy
B. Interval appendectomy
C. Conservative management and observation
Answer : B
2077. Pregnant woman wants to quit smoking but failed previous attempts and
is worried about continuing smoking during pregnancy. Most appropriate
management?
A. Nicotine replacement patches
B. Non-nicotine gum
C. Bupropion
Answer: A
2078. Patient presented with painful perianal bluish mass 12 hours after
defecation. Mass was tender on examination. Most likely diagnosis/
management?
A. Conservative management
B. Aspiration
C. Band ligation

2079. 45-year-old woman with endometriosis failed medical therapy and does not desire future fertility.
Most definitive management?
A. Hysterectomy with oophorectomy
B. Laparoscopic ablation
C. Endometrial ablation
D. Combined oral contraceptive pills
Answer: A
2080. Patient presented with obvious UTI symptoms. Urinalysis showed
positive nitrites and hematuria. Most appropriate management?
A. Empirical antibiotic treatment
B. Urine culture only
Answer: A
Q:
Answer: B
2081. Which of the following findings is most characteristic of nephrotic syndrome?
A. Hematuria

B. Hypertension
C. Low serum albumin
Answer: C
Answer: Peritonitis
2082. A patient with diabetic and hypertension is found to have persistent proteinuria. Which
antihypertensive medication is preferred?
A. Calcium channel blocker
B. ACE inhibitor
C. Thiazide diuretic
D. Beta blocker
Answer: B
2083.A 29-year-old pregnant woman at 34? Weeks Was admitted 10 days ago for observation due to headache,
seizures and
drowsiness? presents with headache and BP 140/92 mmHg. She has no seizures. Which of the following is the
most appropriate treatment?
A. Ramipril
B. Labetalol
C. Magnesium sulfate
Answer: C
2084.Patient involved in RTA with air in the chest and neck/ after trauma. Most likely diagnosis?
A. Aortic injury
B. Pneumothorax
C. Pulmonary embolism?
D. Cardiac contusion

Answer: B
2085. Following a head-on motor vehicle collision, a 21-year-old unrestrained passenger
presents to ER with dyspnea and respiratory distress. She is intubated and physical
examination reveals subcutaneous emphysema and decreased breath sounds. Chest x-ray
reveals cervical emphysema, pneumomediastinum, and a right-sided pneumothorax. What is
the most likely diagnosis?
a. Tension pneumothorax
b. Open pneumothoraх
c. Tracheobronchial injury
d. Esophageal injury
e. Pulmonary contusion
Answer: C
2086. Preschool child with hypermetropia. What you will do?
A. Concave glasses
B. Convex glasses
C. Covered one eye
Answer: B
Q: A 6-year-old child is complaining that he cannot see the board in his classroom. He was diagnosed with
Hypermetropia. Which of
the following is the best next step?
A. Reassure
B. Prescribe Concave Lenses
C. Prescribe Convex Lenses
D. Cover one eye / Contact lenses / Artificial tears
Answer: Convex lenses
2087. A patient came to the ER with multiple fractures and was given crystalloids but continued bleeding profusely.
Labs showed Hb < 7 g/dL and severe tachycardia.
The source of bleeding was not mentioned.
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. ABG
B. Diagnostic laparoscopy
C. Surgical laparotomy

Answer: C
2088.A 4-year-old child presented with a history of non-bloody diarrhea for around 1 month (or several weeks).
The diarrhea occurred only during daytime and not at night.
The child appeared well with no failure to thrive.
A. Toddler’s diarrhea
B. Rotavirus
2089.A 2-year-old child initially had upper respiratory tract infection / viral symptoms.
After around 12 hours, the child presented to the ER with cyanosis, drooling, tripod position, and oxygen saturation of
88%.
What is the diagnosis?
A. Croup
B. Epiglottitis
C. Bacterial tracheitis
Answer: C
2090. A pediatric patient presented with ear discharge, high-grade fever, and other symptoms.
What is the most likely cause?
A. Viral
B. Fungal
C. Bacterial
D. Parasitic
Answer: C
2091.A pediatric patient came to the well clinic with only runny nose and cough.

Temperature was 36.5°C.
What should be done regarding vaccination?
A. Give vaccination
B. Postpone vaccination
C. Postpone live-attenuated vaccine
Answer: A
2092.Which vaccine is contraindicated during pregnancy?
A. OPV
B. DTaP
C. Influenza vaccine
Answer: A
2093.Patient came complaining of bleeding with and after defecation with mild itching, what’s the cause:
-anal fissure
-perianal abscess
-hemorrhoids
-fistula
Answer: -hemorrhoids
2094. A patient came complaining of epigastric pain with burning sensation, which of the following do you advice him
to do;
Avoid laying down after eating
Avoid eating 30 mins before bedtime
Decrease frequency of meals (smth like that)
Avoid ginger
Answer: Avoid laying down after eating
2095. obese woman w bp 152/90 + renal bruit on examination. what to do?
- renal us
- pelvic/abdomen CT
- renal CT
The Stem Was “Most Appropriate” , Answer Is “CT”

2096. question about someone with SLE, which drug should be modified:
Warfarin
Amlodipine
2097. A patient has a thyroid mass and laboratory results show a markedly
elevated serum calcitonin level 48. This finding is most
consistent with which type of thyroid cancer?
A. Papillary carcinoma
B. Follicular carcinoma
C. Medullary carcinoma
D. Anaplastic carcinoma
Answer: C
2098. 7 year-old child unvaccinated presents with mild fever and cropped vesicles on the trunk. What is the most likely
diagnosis?
Vitals weren’t given
A. Varicella
B. Herpes simplex virus
C. Smallpox
D. Measles
Answer: A
2099. Child present with meconium aspiration and shortness of breath, was managed by mechanical intubation. how
to diagnose
complications?
A. Bronchoscopy
B. Echocardiogram
C. pulmonary ultrasound
D. ECG
Answer: B
2100. A 30 year old male presented with foul smelling of perianal discharge. No change in
bowel habits, no bleeding no diarrhea . On examination, 3 perianal fistulas were found on 7 and 3 o’clock and maybe 11
o’clock
What is the most appropriate next step?

A- Pelvic MRI
B- fistulogram
C- Rectal US
D- Colonoscopy
Answer: A
Q: 28-year-old patient presented to the clinic complaining of perianal discharge. He reported history of on-off
abdominal pain.
He reported family history of Crohn's disease. On examination, three fistula openings at 3, 7 and 9 o'clock.
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Colonoscopy
B. MRI
C. Fistulogram
D. US
2101. crohns disease, presented with distended bowel, but no bleeding or diarrhea (I think that’s
how it’s written), on imaging it shows a large distended bowl (not abscess ). What’s the management:
Diagnostic laparoscopy
Laparotomy
Percutaneous drainage
2102. A woman with BMI of 35 and PCOS, presents with her athlete healthy husband to the clinic with 2 years of failure
to
conceive. What should you do?
Do tests for her only
Do tests for her husband and tell her to eat healthy
Do tests for her husband
2103. A 7-year-old boy presents to the ER with abnormal movements during sleep involving his
face and limbs. He has a history of seizures but is otherwise neurologically normal. EEG
shows frontotemporal spikes.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Infantile spasms
B. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy
C. Rolandic seizure
Answer: C

2104. The patient was a smoker for 20 years I believe
Annual low dose CT
Advice him to quit smoking (like only quit smoking is enough)
Answer: Annual low dose CT
USPSTF Guidelines:
Lung Cancer Screen is Recommended For Those Who Have BOTH [Age 50 AND 20 Pack/Year Smoking]
If He Is 50 ➔ Answer Is Low Dose CT
If He Is 49 ➔ No Need To Screen
2105. A 5-day-old girl brought to Emergency Room with lethargy and poor feeding. On examination, she
was irritable, deeply jaundiced and dehydrated. The mother gave history of previous babies' required
admission and exchange transfusion (see lab results).
Which of the following is important to be obtained in the history?
Blood pressure 90/55 mmHg, Heart rate 95 /min,
Respiratory rate 18 /min
Temperature 36.6 °C
Oxygen saturation 94 % Weight 3 kg
Test Result Normal Values
Hb 95 165-195 g/L (Newborn) 112-165 g/L (Child)
Reticulocyte 3 0.2-1.2 %
Total bilirubin 360 <274 mol/L (Preterm (3-5) days) <205
mol/L (Term (3-5) days)
<21 mol/L (Older infant pre-term)
<20.5 mol/L (Older infant term)
A. Apgar score
B. Birth weight
C. Type of delivery
D. Maternal blood group
Answer: D
2106.An 80-year-old man presents with lower abdominal pain. He is afebrile and

hemodynamically stable. Abdominal ultrasound reveals a 1 × 1 cm fluid collection in the
lower abdomen. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Immediate surgical drainage
B. Start empiric IV antibiotics and observe
C. CT-guided drainage
D. Exploratory laparotomy
2107.- An 80-year-old man presents with lower abdominal pain. He is febrile and
hemodynamically stable. Abdominal ultrasound reveals a 1 × 1 cm fluid collection in the
lower abdomen. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Immediate surgical drainage
B. IV antibiotics
C. CT-guided drainage
D. Conservative
Answer: B
2108. A woman with BMI of 35 I think, type 2 DM, wants to lose weight, however she tried exercising and diet and none
of them
worked for her, what do you recommend for her?
-Take medications that help with weight loss
-Bariatric surgery
-diet
Answer: Bariatric surgery
2109. A 60 yr old man went to family med clinic for regular checkups. He’s asking if there’s any vaccine he can take:
MMR
Pneumococcal
Meningococcal
Dtap
Answer: Pneumococcal
2110. Adult asthmatic patient has recurrent cough and wheeze when exposed to dust and perfumes.
On physical examination, she has mild respiratory wheeze that failed to respond to albuterol.
Spirometry shows a reversible obstructive pattern.
What is the next step in management?
A) Inhaled salbutamol

B) Inhaled budesonide
C) Inhaled ipratropium
D) Montelukast
Answer: B
2111. An 18-month-old child with normal growth and weight 50th percentile is brought by his parents. They are
concerned
because his older sibling was recently diagnosed with celiac disease. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Reassure the parents
B. Order tissue transglutaminase IgA (tTG-IgA) test
C. Start a gluten-free diet
Answer: A
2112. An 4-Year-Old child with normal growth and weight is brought
by his parents. They are concerned because his older sibling
has celiac disease. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Reassure the parents
B. Order tissue transglutaminase IgA (tTG-IgA) test
C. Start a gluten-free diet
Answer: B
2113. elderly around 70s or 60s female pt, complain of vaginal bleeding, us show thickining endometrial wall 18 mm,
pt unfit for
surgery.
Chemo
Radio
Conservative
Progesterone pills
Answer: Progesterone pills
2114. elderly pt HTN, DM with LDL 3.8 (or around ) on metformin, antihypertensive medication, which medication we
can add?
Rouvastaten

2115. pt with numbness, lower limb weakness, sever back pain, MRI show abscess collection with compression sign
(or something
like that)
I and D with decompression
Conservative
Iv antibiotics with local dressing or debridement
2116. ECG absent p wave with hx of stroke
Atrial fibrillation
Atrial flatter
Answer: Atrial fibrillation
2117.
2118. 6days new born with g6pd def.
Type of anemia?
Hemolytic
Inflammatory
Of chronic dis
Physiological
Answer: Physiological

2119. A 14-year-old female presents for evaluation of delayed puberty. Physical examination reveals Tanner Stage 1
for both breast development and pubic hair. Laboratory investigations show normal levels of FSH and LH, but a mildly
elevated serum estradiol level. Given this clinical picture, which of the following is the most likely underlying
condition?
Central Precocious Puberty
Alagille Syndrome
Turner Syndrome
2120. 8 years old, boy bed witting No hx of UTI. What's the best next step ?
A. Refer to psychiatry.
B. Give Desmopressin.
C. Train with a bedtime alarm or something like that. ( NO REASSURANCE )
Answer: C
2121. A female had molar pregnancy two years ago. What's the prediction for her current pregnancy?
A. She's gonna have the same incidence as of normal other pregnancies,
B. should be on contraception.
Answer: B
2122. 14 yrs old with otitis media, what is the causative organism?
Strept Pneumo

2123. 35 years old, female, been married for three years. She was trying to conceive for 18 months, didn't get
pregnant. What is
the best next step?
A. IVF
B. test her and her husband for infertility
Answer: B
2124. 3 years old, looks acutely ill, sit on his mother's lap with his neck extended. What is the management?
A. Give him racemic epinephrine
B. dexamethasone,
C. intubate in the OR
Answer: C
2125. A 30 years old male came with nausea and vomiting.
Anti-HAV IgM: Negative
HBsAg: positive
HBeAg: positive
Anti-HCV: negative.
What the type of hepatitis causing this ?
hepatitis A
hepatitis B
hepatitis C
hepatitis D
Answer: hepatitis B
2126. CNS question, MRI. It was hyperintense lesions that's disseminated in place
and time. What's the diagnosis?
multiple sclerosis
Guillain-Barre syndrome
Q: 20-Year-Old Female With Transient Vision Loss During Sport, No Other Symptoms, MRI Brain: Multiple
Demyelinating Hyperintense Lesion In Periventricular And White Matter Area,
What Is The Most Likely Diagnosis?
A. Multiple Sclerosis
B. Brain Lymphoma

C. Brain Vasculitis
D. Neuropsychiatric SLE
Answer: A
2127. 5 yrs old boy with SVT, what is the initial investigation?
Echo
ECG
Answer: ECG
2128. 23-year-old newly married female with irregular menstrual cycles is seeking contraception. She prefers to avoid
methods
that require daily use. Which of the following is the most appropriate contraceptive option?
A. Combined oral contraceptive pills
B. Condom
C. Diaphragm
D. Estrogen transdermal patch
Answer: D
Q:
2129. Ruptured appendix with collection question:
Appendectomy

Antibiotics + drainage
IV antibiotics
Depending on the size:
4 cm ➔ Drain
3 cm ➔ IV Abx
2130. Amenorrhea case (46 XY): what is the diagnosis?
2131. Amenorrhea case (46 XX): cause?
2132. 7-year-old child who is the only child of his parents He refuses the school or his parents refuse “something like
that “What
to do?
A. Delay his school by one year.
B. Study at home.
C. Give anxiety medication
D. gentle separation.
Answer: D
2133. A 70-year-old woman presents with fatigue and exertional dyspnea for several months. Medical history includes
longstanding hypertension and chronic kidney disease, and she is not adherent to her medications. Examination
reveals

pale mucous membranes and nail beds (see lab results and report). Kidney ultrasonography: Showed small kidneys
bilaterally with echographic features suggesting chronic kidney disease. Which of the following is the most likely
cause of
this patient's anemia?
A. Erythropoietin deficiency
B. Myelodysplastic syndrome
C. Iron deficiency
D. Inflammation
Answer: A
2134. 17y, pregnant primigravida 9 weeks, complain mild vaginal bleeding, US: crown rump length 9 weeks and
heartbeat +.
Next step?
A. Pelvic examination
B. IV Progesterone
C. US for placenta position
D. Reassurance and expectant management
Answer: A
2135. A 9-year-old child with gastroenteritis caused by Shigella species.
Which of the following antibiotics should be prescribed?
A. Amoxicillin
B. Ceftriaxone
C. Azithromycin
D. Metronidazole
Answer: B
2136.

2137. Painless hematuria with distended bladder and failed to insert catheter
Another trial to insert catheter
cystoscopy
iv pyelogram
2138. Case of thyroiditis after URTI she was anxious and had palpitations ,low iodine uptake
what to give now
Propanol
Carbimazole
Answer: A
2139. Treatment of yellowish vaginal discharge with itching?
Metronidazole
Clotrimazole
Answer: A
2140. Case of enlarged parotid gland bilaterally (it was long) what's the causative organism?
Mumps
EBV
CMV
Answer: A

2141. A 50-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department following a fail from 20 feet, on arrival he has a
Glasgow
Coma Scale of 8 with no external sign of injury. Mean arterial pressure 65 mmHg Intracranial pressure 15 mmHg.
Which
of the following is the most likely cerebral perfusion pressure in mmHg?
A. 40
B. 50
C. 60
D. 70
Answer: B
2142. A 72-Year-Old Man Presented With Acute Severe Chest Pain With An ECG Revealing ST Segment Elevation In II,
III,
AVF Leads And Was Treated With Thrombolysis. Two Days Later He Became Acutely Unwell With Severe Dyspnea. On
Examination: • Loud Systolic Murmur At The Apex Radiating To The Axilla
• Bilateral Crackles At The Base Of The Lungs
• Blood Pressure: 90/60 mmHg
• Heart Rate: 100 /min
• Respiratory Rate: 25 /min
• Oxygen Saturation: 88 %
Which Of The Following Is The Most Likely Diagnosis?
A. Myocarditis
B. Cardiogenic Shock
C. Rupture Papillary Muscle
D. Acute Right Sided Heart Failure
Answer: C
2143. Patient 45 years old with right sided breast pain and bloody nipple charge, no findings on physical examination
of the right

breast Whats the most appropriate investigation?
A. Ductogram
B. Mammogram
C. Ultrasound
D. CT
Answer: B
2144.A 32-year-old woman with obesity (BMI 38 kg/m²) and chronic hypertension is planning pregnancy. She is
concerned about the
risk of intrauterine fetal demise. Which of the following preconception interventions is most important for reducing
this risk?
A. Achieving optimal blood pressure control
B. Weight reduction before conception
C. Both are equally important
D. Smoking cessation (or another plausible distractor)forgot
Answer: C
2145.A patient has a postoperative open wound. The wound is improving, with healthy granulation tissue forming and
no signs
of infection. What is the next best management?
A. Simple packing (wet-to-dry or saline gauze)
B. Vacuum-assisted closure (VAC/negative-pressure wound therapy)
C. Primary closure
D. Antibiotics
Answer: A
2146.
Answer: Preterm infant

2147.A patient presents 7 days after surgery. The surgical wound is well-approximated, has clean edges, and a pink
membrane
is visible in the center. The wound is also itchy. What does this indicate?
A. Early infection
B. Abnormal wound healing
C. Normal wound healing
Answer: C
2148.Patient in her 30s with PCOS and oligomenorrhoea has hirstium what is the best investigation for hirsitum
A. Testosterone
B. Sex binding globulin
C. 17 hydroxyprogesterone
D. Prolactin
Answer: A
2149.Women complains of irregular menses with facial hair but no signs of virilism, what to do to prevent such
condition?
- start therapy without further invx
- do screening for PCOs and testosterone level
2150.
Answer: Glucose tolerance and lipid profile
2151.25 yrs old patient known case of epilepsy presented post seizure attack with flat shoulder contour and the
shoulder is fixed
in adduction and internal rotation
What is the type of dislocation?
A. Inferior

B. Subglenoid anterior
C. Subcoracoid anterior
D. Subacromial posterior
Answer: D
2152.
Answer: 18
2153.A 25-year-old woman presented with a right breast lump, which has been increasing in size over
the past year. Physical examination confirmed a 10×12 cm firm, mobile mass involving the
upper halve of the right breast with no palpable axillary lymph nodes (see report).
Core needle biopsy:
Malignant phyllodes tumour.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Wide local excision
B. Whole body PET scan
C. Contrast CT scan of chest
D. Immunohistochemistry for hormone receptors
Answer: C
2154.Young patient 4 days post exploratory laparotomy has abdominal distenstion and nausea on examination
diffuselly
distended abdomen with sluggish bowel sounds. Despite being on maximum dose of potassium his potassium level
fails to
increase
K level 3.1
What is the possible cause?
A. Co existing hypomagnesemia

B. I can’t remember any of the remaining options to save my life :’)
C. >
D. >
Answer: A
2155.A 35-year-old man post total thyroidectomy for multinodular goitre presented with persistent
hypocalcaemia despite adequate replacement with oral and intravenous calcium.
Which of the following is the most appropriate NEXT step in management?
A. Start diureitcs
B. Start recombinant PTH
C. Check serum magnesium level
D. IV bolus of potassium chloride
Answer: C
2156.A patient in Intensive Care Unit who is post-major surgery received 15 units of blood. The
patient developed bleeding from the incision; nasogastric tube and vein puncture sites.
Which of the following is the most likely cause?
A. Hypocalcaemia
B. Thrombocytopenia
C. Transfusion reaction
D. Von Willebrands disease
Answer: B
2157.Collage student asymptomatic denies chest pain or dyspnea or orthopnea found to have cardiomegaly on chest x
ray and
echocardiography showed left ventricular hypertrophy and ejection fraction of 40%
What is the next management?
A. Repeat echo after 6 months
B. Digoxin
C. Lisinopril
D. Furosmide
Answer: C
2158.Old patient known HTN on hydochlorothizide poorly controlled.

Bp 153/102
Temp and heart rate (79) normal
What diet modifications is needed for better control of his blood pressure?
A. Low fat
B. Low salt
C. Low protein
D. High fiber
Answer: B
2159.A patient notices one or more sharply marginated, scaling, and red plaques predominantly involving only
the vulva. Psoriasis is suspected. Which of the following is required for a definitive diagnosis of psoriasis?
A. Biopsy is required
B. Staining using iodine
C. Clinical diagnosis is sufficient
D. Potassium hydroxide skin scraping
Answer: A
2160.Patient post partum distressed sob desaturated i think. Has +ve homan test
What is the appropriate test for the preliminary diagnosis?
A. Venography
B. D dimer
C. Compression dopplar
2161. women in vaginal delivery on examination Baby nose orbit mouth and chin felt.
What is the next step in management
A. Monitor partography something
B. Urgent c section

2162. Patient presented to the clinic with eye redness on examination there is bilateral redness and wet discharge
Asking about next step in management?
A. Oral antibiotics for 7 days
B. Topical steroid ointment
C. Systemic steroids
D. Something about observe and wet wipes or eye drops ( can’t remember exactly)
2163. Pt 45 yrs has 3 children and completed her family ( mentioned like this) had history of endometriotic cyst that
was
removed from right ovary and now she has dysmenorrhea and pain during intercourse alonge with her chronic pelvic
pain.
She was found to have another endometriotic cyst on the left ovary( forgot the size).
What is the most appropriate management?
A. Laparoscopic cystectomy and ablation of endometriotic tissue
B. Hysterectomy with bilateral oophorectomy
C. Remove when it’s > 10 mm in size
Q: A 39-year-old woman, who is a mother of 3 children and has completed her family, she is a
known case of endometrioma in the right ovary that has been removed 2 years ago. She came
to the clinic complaining of mild to moderate dysmenorrhea and deep pain during intercourse
along with her chronic lower abdomen pain.
Pelvic ultrasonography revealed the presence of le\ ovarian cyst measuring 6X7 cm that
appeared to be an endometrio7c cyst.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Removing the cyst when the size becomes more than 10 cm
B. Aspira7on of the content of cyst under ultrasound guidance
C. Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
D. Removing the cyst laparoscopically with abla7on of any endometrio7c spot

Answer: D
2164. Old patient 60 years k/c of hypertension and something else I forgot. on lisinopril and amlodipine and warfarin
presented
with productive cough and has positive AFB and was started on all 4 medication of TB (written like this)
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Remove rifampicin
B. Decrease lisinopril
C. Discontinue amlodipine
D. Increase warfarin
Answer: D
2165. Young Patient after lifting heavy object presented with RLQ pain and swelling on examination there is swelling
and
tenderness over the RLQ The swelling persisted despite abdominal muscles contraction
What is the diagnosis?
A. Ventral Hernia
B. Rectus sheath hematoma
C. Deep subfascial lipoma
2166. Patient with symptoms of Celiac disease . Has positive anti endomysial and anti TTG.
biopsy showed vilous atrophy
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Give gluten and retest for antibodies
B. Repeat biopsy
C. Elimination of gluten for life
Answer: C
2167.

2168. Patient of MVA suspected cervical injury intubated and admitted to ICU and he is stable.
How to confirm / exclude cervical injury?
A. Ct scan
B. Supine and lateral x ray
C. MRI spine
2169. Patient diagnosed with GERD on esomeprazole 20 mg once daily his symptoms improved but still feels acidic
taste in his
mouth at night.
What is the next step in management
A. Increase esomeprazole dose
B. Add pantoprazole
C. Add clarithromycin and metronidazole

2170. Old patient (he had something honestly i can’t remember what )but he was admitted to nursing home 4 weeks
ago. He lost 3.6kg and cries a lot with isolation from social activities his mood seems to be worse in the morning and
at times when his mood is bad his short term memory loss goes away or something like this (can’t remember the exact
wording for this last part but i am sure it goes away)
What is the diagnosis ?
A. Alzheimer’s disease
B. Depression
C. Multiple infarction dementia
Q: A 65-year-old man with congestive heart failure and osteoarthritis moved into a nursing home 3
months ago. During the past 4 weeks, the patient has lost 3.6 kg, lost interest in all social
activities, and has been crying almost every day. The mood is worse in the morning. At times,
especially when the mood is impaired, the patient's short-term memory appears to be lost.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Multi-infarct dementia
B. Alzheimer's disease
C. Hypothyroidism
D. Depression
Answer: D
2171. Picture ECG ( QRS -ST hockey stick) and patient had yellow tinged vision.
What is the cause?
A. Digoxin toxicity
2172. 60 yrs old women asymptomatic. incidental finding of grade 3 posterior wall prolapse doesn’t affect her
urination or
defecation

What is the most appropriate management?
A. Hysterectomy
B. Posterior wall repair
C. Conservative management or maybe was follow up
2173. Patient known case of chronic hepatitis B. now he is jaundiced. Can’t remember the rest
Elevated liver enzymes and bilirubin
HBV DNA -ve
what to do next?
A. Interferon alpha
B. Liver biopsy
C. Ct abdomen
D. Delta antigen test
2174. Child 9 yrs has bed wetting and mother mentioned that he was dry since the age of six years. His mother noticed
foul smelling urine and change in urine color. There is positive nitrate and leukocytes
Culture: gram negative bacilli bacteria

Wbcs > 100,000
What is the most common organism causing this condition?
A. E coli
B. Proteus
C. Klebsiella
D. Streptococcus pneumonia
Answer: A
2175. Patient presents to clinic complaining of recurrent chest pain. He has chest pain with heavy exersise but
releaved with rest.
resting ecg normal and he has no past medical history or comorbidities.
What next step in management?
A. Myocardial perfusion
B. Echo
C. Stress ECG
D. Coronary Angiography
Answer: C
2176. 25 years old man presented to the clinic and he seems to be looking frequently at the corner of the room when
asked he said
“ my mother is standing there,but others can’t see her only me”. When relatives from his family were asked they said
that his mother died when he was 5 years old.
What does he have or what is the cause of this?
A. Visual hallucination
B. Auditory hallucinations
C. Episode of disorganized thoughts
D. Delusion
Answer: A
Q:

2177.
2178.Patient in ICU has sacral ulcer. the ulcer has necrotic tissue and fat clumps i think.
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. IV antibiotics
B. Debridement and Primary closure
C. Debridement and graft
D. Debridement and apply VAC
Answer: D
2179. A 75-year-old man in the Intensive Care Unit has developed a discharging sacral wound. Examination
confirms necrotic skin and subcutaneous fat.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Primary repair
B. Debridement and primary closure
C. Debridement and primary skin grafting
D. Debridement and vacuum-assisted closure
Answer: D
2180. Patient came with typical chest pain and sweating. ECG shows sinus tachycardia with LBBB. Previous ECG is
normal
Started on aspirin, atorvastatin, Nitroglycerin , Beta blocker and morphine.
Cardiac enzyme is pending.
What is the next step?

A. Intravenous Lidocaine
B. Wait for cardiac enzyme
C. Angiography
D. Discharge home
Answer: C
2181. 78 years old known case of DM2 HTN and CKD admitted to hospital due to confusion and fluctuant of
consciousness
taking multiple drugs (written like this) his temperature is Fever 39 C
urine analysis shows
positive leukocyte esterase
WBC 50
protein negative
glucose +1
which of the following is the best next step?
A. Head CT scan
B. Review medication
C. Lumbar Puncture (LP)
D. Order blood and urine culture and start Antibiotics
Answer: D
2182. Elderly women with recurrent UTIs (didn’t mention number of times per year)
Best clinical proven way to prevent recurrent utis?
A. 1 Hydration
B. 2 cranberry juice
C. 3 avoid tight clothing
D. 4 urinate after intercourse
Answer: A
Q: 12yo with recent UTI , mother asked how to prevent
A/ Hygiene after intercours
B / drink sugary drinks
C / use something
hygiene and clean keep / D
No Hydration

Q: 40yo female healthy but recurrent UTI 4 times in 1 year wants to prevent it
Whats the best clinical based evidence choice to prevent recurent uti?
A-Hydration
B-Cranberry juice
C-Postcoital hygiene
D-Prophylactic abx
Answer: D
2183. Female RA around 35 years patient on Methotrexate, ask dr about vaccination as she afraid from influenza and
pneumonia
A. give live influenza vaccine and No pneumococcal
B. give inactivated influenza vaccine and pneumococcal conjugated
C. don't give any as she is immunocompromised
D. let her stop methotrexate and return to take vaccine
Answer: B
2184. 6 months boy delivered full term vaginally without complications
Come to asses by doctor and he found him has normal development
Which of the following of gross motor development present in the infant at this age
A. sit without support
B. roll from prone to supine
C. mature grasp
Answer: A
2185.
Answer: A. Grand Parity

2186. Pt pos MVA BP 90/60 no bleeding what is the next step :
A. Abdominal ct
B. Brain MRI
C. OBSERVATION
D. IV FLUID
Answer: D
2187. Pregnant 37wks with severe pre eclampsia
The most appropriate step?
A. Observe
B. Immediate delivery
C. Prepare for cs
D. Discharge
Answer: B
2188. 20-year-old G3 P2002 is in Labor and Delivery Ward in active labor at 6 cm dilatation.
The patient is pregnant at 34 weeks and is known to have twin pregnancy. What would be the characteristic that puts
this
patient at risk of postpartum hemorrhage?
A. Patients age
B. Patients parity
C. Gestational age
D. Multiple gestations
Answer: D
2189. Patient have liver cirrhosis with ascites and present with umbilical mass, hernias reducible and uncomfortable
he is planed for hernia repair. What is most appropriate next step?
A. do the operation immediately
B. do not do operation
C. delay until the ascites control
Answer: C
Q: Middle age man known case of chronic liver and ascites, he presented to the ER with large umbilical swelling, upon

examination there was large reducible and uncomfortable umbilical hernia, abdominal
distention with thinning of the skin and dilated veins.
He was planned for elective hernia repair.
What is the most appropriate management?
A. Repair with waterproof lay
B. Laparoscopic mesh repair
C. Delay repair until ascites controlled
D. Paracentesis and open repair
Answer: C
2190. 65 post menopause woman complains of insomnia and hot flushed, what is the initial management?
A. Soya tablets
B. life style modifications
C. Hormonal replacement therapy
D. hysterectomy i think
Answer: B
2191. Child came complaining of generalised edema and fatigue, he had history of bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain
2
weeks ago,
Lab:
Retics 3
Hb 9 or 8
Plt 55
Wbc 8
Cr high
What test would lead to diagnosis ?
A. Blood
B. urine
C. Stool
Answer: C
2192. Child came complaining reduced oral intake, expiratory wheeze, nasal discharge, and mild distress, no fever
What is the most likely diagnosis ?
A. penumonia

B. bronchiolitis
Answer: B
2193. Patient complains of heart burn on pantoprazole (dose was not mention), he is not improving, what the next step
in
management?
A. upper endoscope
B. increase the dose of pantoprazole
C. investigate H.pylori
Answer: C
2194. Women on OCPs came complaining of chest pain for 4 or 5 hours
Trop was less than the normal range mentioned in exam
What is the initial management?
A. anti Coagulation
B. thrombolytic
C. IVC filter
Answer: A?
2195. pt take fentanyl drug as analgesia for joint pain came c/o decrease level of consciousness and
tremor LFT increase 3fold (I think known ckd,) cause ?
A. Werniks encephalopathy
B. uremic encephalopathy
C. drug induce neurotoxicity
2196. Burger disease ask about initial mng
Buerger’s Disease FIRST INITIAL GOLD STANDARD VERY MOST IMPORTANT MANAGEMENT IS SMOKE CESSATION
2197. Pt on anti TB (mention rifampicin ) ask about side effects::
change in body fluid color
2198. copd pt complain of SOB and cough for 3months ph:7.25 I can’t remember the number sorry ask about dx?
A. Copd due to mix resp failure

B. Copd due to acute resp failure type 1
C. Copd due to acute resp failure type 2
D. Copd due to chronic resp failure
2199. Menorrhagia +HTN ask about contraception
Answer: LNG-IUD
2200. Post partum women came complaining of headach and tonic clonic seizure. The headach was severe that
doesn't relieved
by paracetamol, next step ?
A. non contrast CT brain
B. CT brain with venography
Answer: B
2201. 35-year-old male presents with dizziness and fatigue that worsen after meals. On examination, he is pale and
jaundiced. He
does not take any medication except omeprazole.
Laboratory tests show anemia and increased bilirubin (mainly direct/dark). What is the most
likely diagnosis?
A. Cold agglutinin anemia
B. Coombs-positive autoimmune hemolytic anemia
C. Drug-induced hemolysis
D. G6PD deficiency
Answer: D
2202. 19 years old woman came with amenorrhea , no secondary sexual characters low fsh , lh?
A. Abdominal us
B. Start OCP
C. Brain MRI to assess pituitary & hypothalamus
Answer: C

2203. . Patient post MVA vitally stable, blood in meatus, open book frature with bilatral pubic rami, what is next step?
A. CT nephron pyelogram
B. Retrograde urethrogram
C. supra pubic catheter
Q: A 34-year-old male presents to the emergency department after a high-speed motor vehicle accident. He is
found to have a pelvic fracture described as an "open-book" injury.
On examination, there is blood at the urethral meatus and a high-riding prostate on digital rectal exam.
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Insert a Foley catheter
B. Obtain a KUB CT
C. Perform a retrograde urethrogram
D. Proceed to exploratory laparotomy
Answer: C
Q: A 25 years old male post motor cycle accident presented to the ER complaining of generalized body pain. On
examination he loo ked anxoius with
normal breathing and no signs of external bleeding. On pelvic exam he had unstable pelvic fracture and blood at
external meatus.
Vitals BP 110/80
Temp 36.6
RR/16
On x-ray revealed unstable pelvic rami fracture
Which of the following is the initial imaging?
A. CT with contrast
B. Retrograde urethrogram
C. Pelvic angiography
D. Pelvic MRI
Answer: B. Retrograde urethrogram
Q: 24 yo man, MVA, blood in urethral meatus, can’t void, DRE prostate high riding (no mention of open book fx)
Best to diagnose (can’t remember if initial or more appropriate sorry)
A. IV pyelogram
B. Insert Foley’s
C. CT cystogram

D. Retrograde urethrogram
Answer: D. Retrograde urethrogram
2204. Child came with increasing vague abdominal pain and bruises in abdomen has history of falling from bicycle
days ago
what is next step?
A. CT abdomen
B. US abdomen
C. Reassure I think
Answer: A
2205. Women ( i think post partum lactating) complains of breast tenderness and erythema with mass measuring
appx. 2 × 3
cm on exam
US done and showed mass measuring 3×4 cm filled with thick fluids, DDx are breast abscess, complicated cycts and
another differential I forgot, for clinical correlation.
What is the most appropriate management?
A. Abx
B. Aspiration
C. I/D
Answer: B
2206. 30 something or late twenties woman complains of secondary amneorrhea for 6 month, normal FSH and
prolactin,
what is the diagnosis ? ( question had short stem, no labs mentioned)
A. premature ovarian faliure
B. functional insufficiency
C. axis failure (HPO)
Answer: C??
2207. A 60-something-year-old man with known COPD, controlled with bronchodilators, comes for a routine follow-up.
He quit
smoking 12 years ago. His oxygen saturation ranges from 89% to 91%. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Azithromycin
B. Pneumococcal vaccine
C. Home oxygen

Answer: B
2208. A patient presents to the emergency department with abdominal pain for 5 days and yellowish discoloration of
the sclera,
associated with fever and chills.
Laboratory results:
WBC: 19 × 10⁹/L
Indirect bilirubin: 7
Direct bilirubin: 18
Total bilirubin: 25
Alkaline phosphatase (ALP): 250
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Cholangitis
B. Acute cholecystitis
C. Biliary colic
D. Hepatic mucocele
Answer: A
2209. Pediatric with seizure and Fatigue other signs, Hepatomegaly and Cataract
Blood Culture: E.coli
labs showed metabolic acidosis
urine analysis: aminoaciduria and glycosuria
What’s the diagnosis?
A. Galactosemia
B. Homocystinuria
C. Methylmalonic Acidemia
D. Maple syrup urine syndrome
Answer: A
2210. Pregnant delivered and placenta still in place + 800 cc blood loss , typpe of PPH?
A. 1ry
B. 2ry
C. 3ry
D. Iatrogenic

Answer: A
Q: 30 years G2p1 with past hx of pph and now 50% singlton pregnancy
What the risk of pph in her current pregnancy
A , past hx of pph
B, multiple pregnancy
C, grand parity
D, age
Answer: A. past hx of pph
2211. Positive comb test + normal kidney function (mentioned in labs urea & creat)?
A. TTB
B. HUS
C. Evans syndrome
2212. Cough , fevere developed SOB , on examination the child looks well basal crackles on rt lower chest auscaltation
, stony
dullness on percussion , T 38.5 ?
A. Pneumonia
B. Pleural effusion
2213. Woman heavy smoker, will start on exercise program and she doesn't know the risk on health , what type of
model?
A. Health belief model
B. Health promotion model
C. Transtheoretical
Answer: A

2214. Perforated diverticulitis + abscess collection 6.8 cm , vitally stable ( vitals provided no hypotension nor fever) ?
A. Antibiotic
B. Exploration
C. Percutaneous drainage and Antibiotic
Answer: C
2215. Man old age left lower abdominal pain , constipation, vitals normal except fever 38.5
WBCs 18
initial next step?
A. Antibiotic
B. Colonoscopy
Q: Old man known case of diverticulosis, came complaining of mild intermittent left lower abdominal pain, has no fever
normal WBCs and no signs of peritonitis. What is the most appropriate initial management?
Examiner: All These Negatives Were Literally States In The Question (No Fever , Normal WBC , No Signs Of Peritonitis)
A- CT abdomen
B- IV antibiotics and bowel rest
C- Increase fiber and fluid intake
D- Laparotomy
2216. Endoscopy: urease negative for pt complaining of epigastric pain?
A. Urea breath test
B. Another test for h. Pylori (don't remember)
C. Biopsy for histology
2217. Old age HTN non compliant to medications, come with rt side weakness , slurred speech , examination agitated,
rt or lt
pupil dilated > other 1mm , Bp 160/90 ,Ct brain free ?
A. MRI brain
B. MRA
2218. Child with head trauma vomited then came to ED drowsy and dilated pupil ,
CT small epidural hematoma no midline shift ?
A. Urgent surgical evacuation
B. Repeat ct
C. Mannitol

Answer: A
2219. Girl presented with bleeding per rectum , watery diarrhea , long standing nausea , epigastric pain?
A. Admitt for further investigation
B. Pediatric surgery consultation
C. Reassure
D. PPI and follow up
2220. 7 years old girl presented with breast development and pubic hair , breast tanner 3 and pubic hair tanner 2 ,
normal fsh , lh
, brain mri normal , high estradiol ?
A. Central precocious puberty
B. Peripheral precocious puberty
Answer: B
2221. Child 2 moth features (I forget ) protruded tongue , on cardiac exam significant murmur?
A. VSD
B. ASV
C. COA
D. Atrioventricular canal
2222.
2223. Uncontrolled BA + greasy foul smell stool , next investigation?
A. Ct chest
B. Brocho lavage

C. Sweat chloride test
Answer: C
2224. A 14-year-old girl presents with short stature, primary amenorrhea, and absent secondary sexual
characteristics. Her karyotype is 45,X.
What is the most appropriate treatment at this time?
A) Growth hormone
B) Oral contraceptive pills
C) Estrogen therapy
D) Gonadotropin replacement therapy
Answer: A
2225. Child(I think 2 month) came with his mother concern about chicken Pox infection after his exposure with child
with chicken Pox several days. Child now asymptomatic what to do
A. reassure the mother only
B. give VZIG
C. give chicken box vaccine
D. give prophylaxis antibiotics
Answer: A
Q: the child was on leukemia treatment and then was exposed to child with chickenpox. the child is asymptomatic?
A-give varicella vaccine
B- IVIG
C- give varicella immunoglobulin
Q: *6* years came with his mother concern about chichen box infection after his exposure with child with chicken box
2 days.
Child now asymptomatic what to do?
A. Observe for a few days
B. give IVIG
C. give chichen box vaccine
D. I don't remember but irrelevant
Answer: C. give chichen box vaccine
2226. A 34-year-old woman who delivered 5 months ago presents with fatigue, dizziness, and failure to

breastfeed her baby. Her obstetrical history reveals a vaginal delivery complicated by a retained
placenta and severe postpartum hemorrhage. On evaluation, her free T4 level is low (4 mmol/L).
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Give thyroxine immediately
B. Order Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) level
C. Give conjugated estrogen
D. Correct hyponatremia with hypertonic saline
Answer: B
2227. A patient who is a known case of Crohn's disease presents with bouts of bloody diarrhea and left-sided
abdominal pain. The patient is currently taking prednisone 50 mg daily. A sigmoidoscopy is performed
and reveals recurrent patchy colitis. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Anti-TNF agent (e.g., Infliximab / Adalimumab)
B. Ileal release steroids
C. Broad-spectrum antibiotics
D. 5-aminosalicylic acid (Mesalamine)
Answer: A
2228. A post-operative patient who underwent a subtotal colectomy has a nasogastric tube set to high-level
continuous suction.
Laboratory evaluation reveals a serum potassium level of 2.8 mmol/L (low). What is the primary cause of this patient's
hypokalemia?
A. Nasogastric (nasal) suctioning
B. Inadequate dietary intake
C. Renal potassium wasting due to aldosterone
D. Intraoperative fluid shif
Answer: C
2229. A 72-year-old man is brought to the clinic by his wife due to episodes where he suddenly stops speaking,
develops a blank,
staring look, and displays repetitive facial grimacing and lip-smacking. Each episode lasts for 1 to 2 minutes, after
which
he is temporarily confused. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Temporal lobe seizure
B. Typical absence seizure
C. Transient ischemic attack

D. Frontotemporal dementia
Answer: A
2230. Psyco insomnia hx depressive family hx of mania presents with symptoms of insomnia and maybe irritability?
-Give mania drug
-Antidepressant drug
-Reassure or psyco therapy
2231. A 40-year-old man medically and surgically free is evaluated in the Emergency Department for several episodes
of hematemesis. He has no previous similar episodes and takes no medications. There is no jaundice, splenomegaly,
or other signs of chronic liver disease. Abdominal examination reveals no tenderness, guarding, or rebound.
Lab results: BP: 105/65 mmHg, HR: 110/min, Temp: 36.8°C, Hb: 95 g/L (low), Platelets: 250 × 10⁹/L, WBC: 12 × 10⁹/L,
LFTs: normal
Which of the following is the most likely cause of his gastrointestinal bleeding?
A. Erosive gastritis
B. Peptic ulcer disease
C. Esophageal varices
D. Mallory-Weiss tear
Answer: B
2232. A married couple underwent in vitro fertilization (IVF) and successfully created viable embryos. However, before
the embryos could be implanted into the wife's uterus, the couple decided to get a divorce. What is the most
appropriate ethical and legal action regarding the stored embryos?
A. Discard the embryos as they are no longer married
B. Keep the embryos stored until all legal matters end
C. Allow the wife to use the embryos since she has maternal rights
D. Donate the embryos to an infertile married couple
Answer: A
2233. A female patient undergoes BRCA genetic screening for breast cancer risk. Three days later, her sister arrives at
the clinic
asking to obtain the test results on her sister's behalf. What is the most appropriate action by the physician?
A. Refuse to disclose the results to protect patient confidentiality
B. Give the results to the sister as she shares a genetic risk
C. Refer the sister to the patient affairs department to sign a release form
D. Contact the patient immediately while the sister is in the clinic to get verbal consent

Answer: A
2234. A 4-day-old infant is evaluated in the neonatal intensive care unit for episodes of apnea. On examination, a
continuous
machinery-like murmur is heard at the left upper sternal border, and a wide pulse pressure is noted. A chest X-ray
reveals
bilateral pulmonary congestion ("wet lung"). What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Fluid restriction and diuretics
B. NSAID (Prostaglandin inhibitor)
C. Urgent surgical ligation of the ductus
D. Prostaglandin E1 infusion
Answer: B
2235. A newborn infant weighing 2 kg (small for gestational age) is noted to have a depressed nasal bridge,
hypertelorism,
upward slanting palpebral fissures, and an elevated epicanthal fold. Which of the following is the most appropriate
next
step in management?
A. Chromosomal analysis
B. Metabolic screening
C. Congenital infection screening (TORCH)
D. Skeletal survey
Answer: C
2236. A 42-year-old woman presents with a firm, partially movable right breast mass that has been present for 3
months.
Physical examination and imaging reveal an ill-defined lobulated hypoechoic mass measuring 2 × 2 cm, which is coded
as
BI-RADS IV.
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Fine needle aspiration cytology
B. Needle core biopsy
C. Excisional biopsy

D. Short-interval follow-up imaging
Answer: B
2237. A 30-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus presents to the Emergency Department with a 2-day
history of
generalized tonic-clonic seizures and severe fatigue. Musculoskeletal and neurological examinations are otherwise
normal.
She is initiated on intravenous methylprednisolone. Brain MRI reveals multiple hyperintense lesions. Which of the
following medications is the most appropriate additional treatment to control her disease flares?
A. Cyclophosphamide
B. Azathioprine
C. Phenytoin
D. Heparin
Answer: A
2238. A 37-week gestation baby on delivery has a heart rate below 100 beats per minute, blue extremities, a weak cry
with
grimace, and little flexion.
What is the most accurate APGAR score?
A. 4
B. 5
C. 7
D. 9
Answer: B
Q:
2239. A 28-year-old woman underwent surgical excision of a breast mass that was clinically and radiologically
suspected to be a

fibroadenoma. The final histopathology report reveals a benign fibroadenoma with an incidental finding of a single
focus of
lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) with free surgical margins. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Simple mastectomy
B. Adjuvant radiotherapy
C. Adjuvant chemotherapy
D. High-risk screening and follow-up
Answer: D
2240. A 33-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Department with a history of severe right upper quadrant
abdominal
pain and yellow sclera. On examination, she appears unwell and has marked right upper quadrant tenderness with no
guarding. An abdominal ultrasound reveals multiple gallstones and a dilated common bile duct (CBD) measuring 12
mm.
She is initiated on intravenous fluids and broad-spectrum antibiotics. What is the most appropriate next step in
management?
Labs
White Blood Cells (WBC): 15.0 × 10⁹/L (high)
Total Bilirubin: 43 µmol/L (high)
Alkaline Phosphatase: 280 IU/L (high)
A. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
B. Emergency laparoscopic cholecystectomy
C. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
D. Percutaneous cholecystostomy tube placement
Answer: A
2241. child i think 18month came for vaccinations, mother reported hx of chicken pox infection 2 months ago that was
CONFIRMED CLINICALLY, rash subsided within a few days, mother also showed a picture of the rash and it was
consistent with varicella. whats the best action regarding varicella vaccination
A. Give ivig
B. Give vaccine now
C. Give vaccine at 2 years
D. Don’t give vaccine
Answer: D

2242. 30 yo man with one week hx of jaundice, RUQ pain and fatigue, no mention of any chronic illness or risk factors
ALT 1000 AST 850
what type of ACUTE hepatitis infection this pt have?
(the word Acute was written in the Stem)
A. Hep A
B. Hep B
C. Hep C
D. Hep D
Answer: B
2243. Baby for 9m vaccination, which of the following would be considered a contraindication for vaccination.
A. Moderate to severe illness
B. Penicillin allergy
C. Pharmacological therapy
Answer: A
2244.65 yo man Terminal lung cancer pt discussed his desire for DNR with his primary doctor, dnr order was NOT
completed,
then pt went for abdominal emergency surgery and during the surgery he had cardiac arrest, what to do?
A. respect pt previously mentioned desire for DNR
B. start Cardiac resus
C. obtain consent from family member
D. obtain consent from ethical committee
Answer: B
2245. Patient with Epigastric pain improving with calcium carbonate. On exam tenderness in hypochondriac region
FOBT positive
Colonoscopy normal
Next best step
A. esophagogastroduodenoscopy
B. treat with omeprazole
C. explorative lap
D. can’t remember
Answer: A

2246.A pic of rooting relfex, when will it disappear ?
A. 2 months
B. 4 months
C. 6 months
D. 8 months
Answer: B
2247.A pregnant lady, TSH is high, low Free t3 and 4. What to give now?
1. Thyroxine
2. Propranolol
3. nonsense
4. Nonsense
Answer: 1
2248.An 82-year-old man hospitalized for a severe urinary tract infection develops acute confusion, agitation, and a
fluctuating
level of consciousness. He is diagnosed with delirium. In addition to treating his underlying infection, what is the most
appropriate next step in his supportive management?
A. Initiate low-dose haloperidol therapy
B. Reorient the patient frequently to time and place
C. Apply physical restraints to prevent accidental falls
D. Place the patient in a dark, completely isolated room
Answer: B
2249.A 9 month baby, with 6 months bone age, GH is normal, IGF 1 is low
A. Failure to thrive
B: Constitutional low growth
C: Decrease growth hormone
Answer: C
2250.A 14-year-old boy presents to the pediatric clinic complaining of recurrent crampy abdominal pain, persistent
non-bloody
diarrhea, and weight loss over the past 3 months. A colonoscopy is performed and reveals deep, longitudinal mucosal

ulcerations alternating with areas of completely normal-appearing mucosa, alongside multiple aphthous ulcers. What is
the
most likely diagnosis?
A. Ulcerative colitis
B. Crohn's disease
C. Celiac disease
D. Pseudomembranous colitis
Answer: B
2251.A 34-year-old healthy woman presents with recurrent symptoms, including headache, anxiety, and mastalgia,
that start 8-
10 days before menstruation and improve afterward. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Endometriosis
B. Perimenopausal symptoms
C. Pelvic congestion syndrome
D. Premenstrual Tension Syndrome
Answer: D
2252.A 19-year-old woman presented with crampy, lower abdominal pain beginning with the onset of menses every
month, and
lasting for 2 to 3 days. There was no pain between menses, but reported radiation of pain to the lower back and upper
thighs, along with nausea, fatigue, and headache which has been present for several years and progressively ge\ng
worse.
Physical examination normal. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Secondary dysmenorrhea
B. Premenstrual syndrome
C. Primary dysmenorrhea
D. Endometriosis
Answer: C
2253.A guy came from India, with meningitis symptoms ( headache neck rigidity photosensitivity)
CSF shows
- low glucose
- slightly high protein
- lymphocytosis
what could be the causitive organism?

A. TB
B. Viral
C. Bacterial
D. Fungal
Answer: A
2254.Male patient in his 20s, present with sever epigastric pain for 6 hours, start suddenly. On examination there is
diffuse
tenderness, sluggish bowel sound.
Labs: high WBCs, Amylase 300
Which of the following best initial diagnostic step?
A- Erect chest X-ray
B- Abdominal X-ray
C- Abdominal CT
D- Abdominal US
Answer: A
2255.A 30 something or late twenties woman complains of secondary amenorrhea for 6 month , normal FSH and
prolactin,
what is the diagnosis ? ( question had short stem, no labs mentioned)
A- premature ovarian failure
B- functional insufficiency
C- axis failure (HPO)
D- polycystic ovarian syndrome
Answer: D
2256.19 years old female with primary amenorrhea and present breast development and secondary characteristics
most
probable diagnosis?
A-gonadal dysgenesis
B- lh agenesis
C- mullerian agenesis
D-pituitary fsh deficiency
Answer: C

Q 19 y.o female with primary amenorrhea, normal physical examination with normal breast
development, what is the cause?
A. Müllerin syndrome
B. Gonadal agenesis
C. Pituitary hormone
D. Ovarian
Answer: A
2257.A 9-year-old boy is brought to the pediatric endocrine clinic by his mother due to concerns regarding his short
stature. On
physical examination, his height and weight are both tracking steadily along the 3rd percentile, and his systemic exam
is
otherwise unremarkable.
Laboratory evaluation reveals a normal random tsh , fsh , but a low insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) level for his
chronological age. A left wrist radiograph demonstrates a bone age of 6 years. Upon taking the family history, the
physician
notes that the mother short.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis for this patient?
A) Growth Hormone Deficiency
B) Familial Short Stature
C) Severe Nutritional Failure to Thrive
D) constitutional growth delay
Answer: A
Q: A 9-year-old boy is brought to the pediatric endocrine clinic by his mother due to concerns regarding his short
stature. On
physical examination, his height and weight are both tracking steadily along the 3rd percentile, and his systemic exam
is otherwise
unremarkable. Laboratory evaluation reveals a normal random TSH , FSH , but a low insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)
level
for his chronological age. A left wrist radiograph demonstrates a bone age of 6 years. Upon taking the family history,
the physician
notes that the mother short.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis for this patient?
A) Growth Hormone Deficiency
B) Familial Short Stature
C) Severe Nutritional Failure to Thrive
D) constitutional growth delay

2258.An unvaccinated child develops a high-grade fever, cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, and a maculopapular rash that
started
behind the ears and spread downward to the trunk. On oral examination, small gray-white spots on an erythematous
base
(Koplik spots) are noted on the buccal mucosa. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Intravenous acyclovir
B. Supportive and conservative care (fluids and antipyretics)
C. Broad-spectrum oral antibiotics
Answer: B
2260.Child with increasing jaundice, flapping tremor and decreased school
performance. O/E stigmata of chronic liver disease are present.
Which of the following is MOST APPROPRIATE management?
A. Liver biopsy
B. Liver HIDA Scan
C. 24h urinary copper
Answer: D
2261. Biostat question asking to calculate the rate of people affected 30 kids with gastroenteritis 150 people total
A. 10%
B. 15%
C. 20%
D. 25%
Answer: C
2262. A 39-year-old G6P5 woman at 24 weeks' gestation presents to the antenatal clinic complaining of decreased
fetal movement
for the last 24 hours. She is hemodynamically stable. An ultrasound is performed and confirms intrauterine fetal death
(fetal demise) with no cardiac activity. What is the most appropriate management to induce labor?
A. Oxytocin
B. Misoprostol
C. Mifepristone
D. Dinoprostone
Answer: B

2263.
Answer: D. Retrograde Urethrogram
2264. Man came from holiday with chest XR showing signs of ARDS (literally written like that) + labs showing sodium
122
what’s the causative agent
A. legionella
B. can’t remember other choices
Answer: A
2265. calculate the ASA score. hypertension, not very controlled, mildly elevated, diabetes (can’t rememembr on
metformin or insulin). 2 years ago had inferior stemi, not managed with a stent but he took aspirin and statin. now
coming for an elective inguinal hernia repair, what's the ASA score
A. 1
B. 2
C. 3
D. 4
Answer: C
2266. a guy fell from 4 stories. has a double fracture in the third fourth and fifth ribs with lung contusion. Breath
sounds present.
What’s the next best step
A. adequate analgesia
B. surgery
C. chest tube
D. needle decompression

Answer: A
2267.
2268. kid with 4 episodes of tonsillitis, missed a few days from school now doing well
A. tonsillectomy
B. don’t play out in the cold
C. hand hygiene
D. prophylactic abx
Answer: C
2269. 56 years old. on Aspirin and some other med. Presenting with 6 or 8 hrs of painless rectal bleed with clots. No
abd pain, no
weight loss, no changes in bowel movement, no abdominal tenderness. No hemorrhoids or masses seen. Whaat the
most
likely case
A. colon cancer
B. angiodysplasia
C. ibd
Answer: B
2270. Woman with amenorrhea. mass felt from vagina during DRE. Diagonal incision across the hymen was done.
what
prophylactic med
A. ocp for 6 months
B. prophylactic abx post procedure

C. iud
Answer: Topical Estrogen
2271. Kid with fever, runny nose, for a few days.
Now not improving, fever persisting and throat erythematous what makes u do further investigation
A. persisting fever
B. red throat
Answer: A
Q: Pediatric pt with bronchiolitis treated conservatively with hydration and suction then develop fever 38 and
loss of appetite and red pharynx.
What will require further investigations?
A. Persistent high fever
B. Pharyngeal erythema
Answer: A. Persistent high fever
2272. A question about retained placenta for 30 min
A. IV oxytocin
B. IM ergometrine
Answer: A
2273. If you had to raise awareness to the public which one would u choose (worded better than that)
A. oral cancer
B. pancreatic
C. colon cancer
Answer: C

2274. Woman with neck mass showing hypo echoic with irregular borders
A. FNA
B. thyroidectomy
C. can’t remember
Answer: A
2275. Woman pregnant 9 weeks gestation presenting with signs of hyperthyroidism but no eye protrusion what’s
treatment
A. methimazole
B. ptu
C. thyroidectomy
D. radioactive iodine
Answer: B
2276. Loss of sensation to lateral ankle and foot what nerve supple
A. L3/L4
B. L4/L5

C. L5/S1
D. s1/s2 or s2/s3
2277.
2278.

Answer: D. Nutrition feeding
2279.
Answer: C. Number of death among infected people with Mers Cov
2280.
Answer: C. Refer for thoracic surgery
2281.

Answer: D. Lisinopril and amlodipine
2282.
Answer: B. Intravenous iron preparation
2283.

Answer: C. Septic shock
2284. A 30-year-old woman G2 P1 L1 presented 3 days ago to the Emergency Room at 30
weeks gestation with preterm premature rupture of membranes. She was managed expectantly
and today she started to have fever and abdominal pain.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Labor
B. Chorioamnionitis
C. Placental abruption
D. Cervical incompetence
Answer: B
Q: A 30-year-old woman G2 P1 L1 presented 3 days ago to the Emergency Room at 30
weeks gestation with preterm premature rupture of membranes. She was managed
conservatively, and today she started to have fever and abdominal pain.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Painkiller
B. Ampicillin, Gentamicin, and observe
C. Ampicillin, Gentamicin, and deliver the patient
D. Check the source of fever and treat accordingly
Answer: C
Q: A pregnant woman presents with PPROM for 7 days, now with lower abdominal pain, rigors, fever, and purulent
foulsmelling vaginal discharge. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Chorioamnionitis
B. Urinary tract infection
C. Antepartum hemorrhage
D. Lower respiratory tract infection

Answer: Chorioamnionitis
Answer: A
2285. Screening of IDA 9-12 months
Concerned mom with her newborn ask about when is the time for screening for IDA:
A. 2 months
B. 4 months
C. 10 months
D. 18 months
Answer: C
2286. abd trauma bp isnt bad, 105/85 severe lower abd pain most appropriate?
Fluids before FAST
2287. chronic pelvic pain and urgency relived by voiding diagnostic laproscopy no endometriosis(excluded) wht to do?
Refer to urology
2288.
2289. Newborn delivered by vacuum, and had blood cross sutures (cephalohematoma), he had

tachycardia and hypotension and Hb 7.5. What will you do?
A- FFP
B. Immediate resuscitation
C. IV fluids and blood transfusion
Answer: C
2290. Pt presented with RUQ pain and vomiting. Vitals stable ( I believe )
The imaging showed thinking of the gallbladder and gallstones
A- laparoscopic cholecystectomy
B- ERCP and sphincterectomy
Answer: A
2291. I can’t remember the exact details but the description was as it is
Colonoscopy shows linear ulce segmental strictures, and areas of normal mucosa.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Inflammatory bowel disease
B. Crohn's disease
C. Ulcerative colitis
Answer: B
2292. Primigravida mother I think was around 20-25 years of age she no medical history or family history of DM
Bp was 110/70
HR was normal ( can’t remember exact number )
What you want to do for her or what you recommend.
A. early glucose screening
B. Give iron for possible anemia
Answer: B
2293. Female 38 wkf of gestation with twins in vertex position ctg was normal what type of deliver
A. Vaginal
B. Forceps
C. C section
Answer: A

2294. A 33-year-old woman diagnosed with papillary thyroid cancer and planed for total thyroidectomy, she have
mitral valve
prolapse with mild regurgitation, no other co-morbidity. Which of the following is most appropriate op7on to prevent
infec>on?
A. Amoxicillin to prevent endocarditis
B. Cefazolin to prevent wound infection
C. No indication for an7bio7c prophylaxis
D. Administer both cefazolin and amoxicillin
Answer: C
2295. A 22-year-old primigravida at 40 weeks gestation with a breech presentation is planned for a Cesarean section.
During
surgery, you notice a right ovarian cyst measuring 12 cm. What will you do?
A. Cystectomy
B. Oophorectomy
C. No intervention
D. Squeeze and rupture
Answer: A. Cystectomy
2296.
Answer: B
2297. plumber has SOB and cough crackles on examination
CXR shadow something wht will you do HRCT or spirometry= HRCT because risk of interstitial lung disease

2298. 78-year-old male post-op contaminated abdominal surgery. Admitted to ICU and received 6 L of crystalloid IV
fluid and 1
PRBC in the last 12 hours. Broad- spectrum antibiotics were administered. CVA 10 and urine output 20 ml/hr. Vitals:
BP
70/45, HR:
125, T: 38.6, O2: 93%, Labs: WBC 8. What is the most appropriate IV intervention?
A. Albumin
B. 2L crystalloid fluid
C. Norepinephrine
D. Furosemide
Answer: C
2299. female patient, aside from Hx of heartburn improving with antacids, is medically free.
One of her family members diagnosed with gastric cancer (donÕt remember the age nor the relationship), she was
asking
about an advice how to prevent/decrease the risk of having gastric cancer?
A. Elevate bed under her head
2300. Child male with cryptorchidism, low lying epiconthal folds, nuchal skin, what is the ddx:
A. Marfan syndrome
B. Noonan syndrome
Answer: B
2301. DNR must be from same hospital DNR from other hospital IS VALID for 24 hrs Family should verify DNR patient
Any
member of medical team can verify DNR
B) DNR from other hospital IS VALID for 24 hrs
2302.

2303.
Answer: D
2304. 5-Year-Old Man Known To Have COPD Presented To The Emergency Department With Increasing Dyspnea,
Cough, Expectoration And Fever. Initial Assessment Revealed Fully Conscious Patient With Mild Distress, Central
Cyanosis And Bilateral Wheezing On Chest Auscultation. The Patient Was Started On High Flow Oxygen And
Salbutamol Nebulizer But 1 Hour Later, His Level Of Consciousness Is Reduced (See Lab Result).
Lab Results:
¥ ABG HCO"#: 36 (Normal: 22-28 mmol/L)
¥ ABG PCO$: 9 (Normal: 4.7-6.0 kPa)
¥ pH: 7.18 (Normal: 7.36-7.45)
¥ ABG PO2: 15 (Normal: 10.6-14.2 kPa)
Which Of The Following Is The Best Initial Step In Management?
A. Start Mechanical Ventilation
B. Reduce Oxygen Flow
C. Order Brain CT Scan
D. Give Naloxone
Answer: B

2305. 10 year old boy with frontal headache, fever, and stuffed nose. 2 days prior he had runny nose and sore throat.
On examination, he had left cheek tenderness.
What is the next best management?
A. Orofacial X-ray
B. Reassurance
C. Amoxicillin- clavulanate for 10 day
Q: 10 year old boy with frontal headache, fever, and runy nose. 2 days prior he had runny nose and sore throat he had
left
cheek tenderness
He is vitally stable and his Labs was normal with 38.5 temperature even though they mentioned fever in the stem
What is the next best management?
A. Orofacial X-ray
B. Reassurance
C. Amoxicillin- clavulanate for 10 day
2306. A patient presented after MVA with paraplegia and T6 injury, he is breathing well but his BP is 70/40 What is
your
initial step ?
A. immediate intubation
B. Isotonic fluid
C. CT
Answer: B
2307. Mixed thyroid, cystic and solid
Right thyroidectomy
Aspirate the cystic
Aspirate the solid
2308. patient with dilated cardiomyopathy on metoprolol develops cardiogenic shock. What is the most appropriate
management?
A. Stop metoprolol immediately
B. Give glucagon as an antidote
C. Continue metoprolol and add dobutamine
D. Switch metoprolol to carvedilol
Answer: A

2309. A 30-year-old Primigravida at 17 weeks of gestation is known to have epilepsy and is on valproic acid, She was
concerned
about the possible risks to her baby.
Which of the following fetal abnormalities is markedly increased?
A. Oligohydramnios
B. Polyhydramnios
C. Neural tube defect
D. Non-immune hydrops
Answer: C
2310. Child with Fecal soiling Options:
A. Idiopathic constipation
B. Hirschsprung disease
Answer: A
2311. A 7-month-old child presents with vomiting and jaundice, but no hepatosplenomegaly.
The child was previously healthy and tolerated breastfeeding well. Symptoms began after the introduction of fruits and
fruit juices. Urine sediment test is positive.
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Fructose intolerance syndrome
B. Galactosemia
C. Gluten insensitivity
Answer: A
2312. An 80-year-old man with Alzheimer disease has recently started wandering at night and sometimes leaves the
house while
asleep/confused.
What is the most appropriate management?
A. Lock the doors and prevent him from leaving the house
B. Install door alarms and motion sensors
C. Buy a tracking device and attach it to him
D. Give antipsychotic medications
2313. Pregnant women at 10 wks of gestation with previous 2 abortion due to congenital anomalies come When is the
time for

screening for anomalies:
A. 10-12 wks
B. 12-14 wks
C. 18-20 wks
D. 22-26 wks
2314. Man with history of STD Labs shows trachomatis clamydia
A. ceftriaxone
B. Azithromycin
Answer: B
2315.
Answer: B. Obstructed labor
2316. A 37y patient suffered from circumferential right forearm burn + weak distal pulsation +oxygen saturation 86%
in right
arm ,what is most appropriate next step
A-IV vasodilators
B-Immediate Escharotomy
C-IV fluids , burn dressing , limb elevation

D- measure intra compartmental pressure
Answer: B
2317. Pregnant known diabetic 40weeks uneventful pregnancy, sudden fetal death, fetus was 2.6kg no
obvious anomaly, placental sample showed thrombi, what's the cause of the fetal death:
A- diabetes
B- placental abnormality
C- growth restriction
Answer: B
2318.
Answer: C. Subcutaneous erythropoietin
2319. A child with a history of asthma presents for evaluation. His medical history is notable for atopic dermatitis. The
patient
has experienced recurrent episodes of wheezing and coughing, especially at night and with exposure to triggers Which
of
the following provides objective evidence of asthma?
A) History of atopic dermatitis
B) Increase in FEV%after bronchodilator
C) Family history of asthma
D) Nighttime coughing
Answer: B
2320. A patient presented with hypercalcemia. The next step in management was asked. The options included:
A. Calcitonin
B. Bisphosphonate
C. Denosumab

D. IV fluids
Answer: D
2321. . long case but it tells you that through imaging that the patient has a hemorrhagic stroke , he
can move his pupils but they are pin point , and he can not speak or move his body, where is the lesion ?
A-pons
B-medulla
C-basal ganglia
Answer: A
2322. A patient presents with right-sided hemiplegia (power 0/5), left-sided facial palsy, aphasia, and right-hand
dominance. He
also has facial anesthesia. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A) Left MCA stroke
B) Right MCA stroke
C) Lateral medullary syndrome
A) Left MCA stroke
Answer: A
2323. Question about ruptured appendicitis, only mentions presence of abdominal pain and fever, no specific
temperature, no size of abscess, asked about most appropriate next step:
A. Interval appendectomy
B. Immediate appendectomy
C. IV antibiotic then observe
D. Oral antibiotics and send home
2324. Adult involved in MVA with irregular breathing low bp and pulse(cushing's triad) but oriented and cannt
move his limbs what to do?
A. Tracheostomy
B. Cricothyroidectomy
C. Oro tracheal intubation
D. NasoTracheal tube
Answer: C

Q: A trauma patient presents with quadriplegia (unable to move arms and legs), is conscious
and oriented, but has shallow breathing. What is the best method to secure the airway?
A. Tracheostomy
B. Cricothyrotomy
C. Orotracheal intubation
D. Nasotracheal intubation
Answer: C
2325. A 25 years old woman presents with sever acne following with a dermatologist who prescribed her
ISOTRETINOIN and advised her not to get pregnant. She asks when she can try to get pregnant, what is
the most appropriate (counseling?) regarding her pregnancy?
A. The medication is safe to take during pregnancy
B. She can try to get pregnant after she finishes the treatment
C. Stop and try to get pregnant immediately
D. She can try to get pregnant after 3 months of stoping the medication
Answer: D
2326. A female patient on isotretinoin for Acne. wishes to conceive. What should the physician
tell her about the appropriate time?
A. She can conceive as soon as she stops the isotretinoin
B. She can conceive while taking isotretinoin
C. She can conceive after 3 months off of isotretinoin
D. She can conceive after 1 month of stopping isotretinoin
Answer: D
2328.Post MVA pt was hypotensive and tachycardic, ct scan was done and showed “large internal pelvic hematoma
actively
bleeding” most appropriate management?
A. Ex lap
B. Blood transfusion
Answer: B
2329.18 months old boy, came to clinic for review. The child is always hungry, drinks 1 litter of milk daily and
eats dirt. Poor solid food intake. On exam He is underweight & has pale conjunctiva. Which the most

appropriate investigation?
A. lead screening
B. CBC with blood smear
C. Ophthalmology consultation
D. Ferritin level
Answer: B
2330.34 year old G2P1 pregnant found out that her baby has Single umbilical artery, she has hx of a multiple
pregnancy, and hypothyroidism on thyroxine. what is the risk factors?
A. Age
B. Parity
C. Multiple pregnancy
D. Hypothyroidism
Answer: C
2331. 7 Years old complains of chronic clear thin nasal discharge and easy nasal itching, o/e there is periorbital
dark swollen and pale turbinates mucosa. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Allergic rhinitis
B. Foreign body (it was written foreign “boy” lol)
C. TB
D. rhinitis medicamentosa
Answer: A
2332.23 weeks primagravida came with minimal vaginal spotting, no pain, no contractions.
US showed viable baby with cervical length of 30mm, most appropriate management?
A. Cervical cerclage
B. conservative management
C. Administration of corticosteroids
D. induction? C sec? I can’t remember
Answer: B
2333.A 26-Year-Old Woman Of Average Size Has Delivered A Baby Boy Within The Last 24 Hours. Her Blood
Group Is B-Negative, Her Husband Is O-Positive, And Her Newborn Son Is A-Positive. A 300 μg Dose Of
Anti-D Immunoglobulin Has Been Prescribed. Which Of The Following Volume Of Fetal Blood Will Be

Protected By The Prescribed Dose?
A. 15 mL Of Fetal Whole Blood
B. 30 mL Of Fetal Whole Blood
C. 60 mL Of Fetal Whole Blood
D. 30 mL Of D-Positive Red Cells
Answer: B
2334. 40-50? year-old man undergoes colonoscopy, which reveals a 1.5 cm polyp in the colon Histopathology:
Tubular Adenoma found and removed completely
When should the next colonoscopy screening be performed?
A. 3-6 months
B. Every 3 years
C. Every 10 years
D. No screening needed
Answer: B
2335. A 10 year old came 5 days post tonsillectomy with bleeding. Which of the following is the cause?
A. Foreign body
B. Infection
C. Incomplete resection
D. Coagulopathy
Answer: B
2336. 40yo female healthy but recurrent UTI, 4 times in 1 year wants to prevent it
Whats the best clinical based evidence choice to prevent recurrent UTI?
A. Hydration
B. Cranberyy juice
C. Postcoital hygiene
D. Prophylactic antibiotics
Answer: A
2337. A 5-year-old child presents with history of increasing eye puffiness for 1 week especially in the morning. He
has had flu-like illness 2 week ago. On examination, he looks well, not in distress and no lower limb edema.

Eye, chest and abdomen exams are normal (see lab results).
Blood pressure 100/70 mmHg
Heart rate 88 /min Respiratory rate 18 /min Temperature 36.6 °C Oxygen saturation 95 % Test Result
Normal Values Total Proteins 35 56-80 g/L Albumin 16 36-52 g/L Protein +4 Absent
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Nephritic syndrome
B. Nephrotic syndrome
C. Hereditary angioedema
D. Protein losing enteropathy
Answer: B
2338. A guy with severe perineal pain and swelling, discoloration that is expanding with crepitus, what is the
most likely diagnosis?
A. cellulitis
B. testicular torsion
C. Fournier's gangrene
Answer: C
2339. A pregnant lady presents asking for termination of pregnancy due to social issues. The US showed a viable
baby at 14 weeks. What is the most appropriate management?
A. Do the abortion as she asked
B. Take consent from the father then do the abortion
C. Explain to the patient that it is illegal and do “something” and offer her permissible alternatives
Answer: C
2340. 16 yo is pregnant and wants to get an abortion due to socioeconomic status. The Dr is persuading her not to
terminate
due to personal belief. What should the physician's stance be?
A- give the advice in a non-bias way
B- say abortion is prohibited by religion
C- take stance of the dr and don’t abort
Answer: A

2341. A pregnant woman in labor is found to have fetal distress based on the cardiotocography (CTG) monitoring. The
doctor decides that a cesarean section (CS) is necessary for the well-being of the baby. However, the mother
refuses the CS and requests a second opinion. What should be the doctor's next step?
A) Respect the mother's request and arrange for a second opinion.
B) Consult with the father of the baby before making a decision.
C) Proceed with the recommended cesarean section.
D) both parents' consent is needed in the emergency situation
Answer: A
2342. A Pregnant Woman In Active Labor Presents With Signs Of Obstructed Labor And Fetal Distress. She Is
Counseled For An Emergency Cesarean Section (CS), But She Refuses The Procedure And Requests A Second
Opinion.
What Is The Most Appropriate Next Step In Managing This Situation?
A) Proceed With The Cesarean Section Against Her Will Due To Fetal Distress
B) Prioritize The Father’s Opinion Over The Mother’s Decision
C) Respect Her Refusal And Request For A Second Opinion
D) Require Consent From Both The Mother And Father Before Proceeding
Answer: C
2343. Another one about a pregnant lady who is scheduled for an elective C-section, came now and she is hesitant
to do the surgery, what to do?
A. do the surgery since she consented before
B. Do it since the anaesthesia is waiting
C. take consent from the father and do it
D. Something and then do the surgery after she gives her informed consent
Answer: D
2344. Father has SC trait with 2 brothers who have SCD. Married a woman her family without SCD and the woman
didn't test yet.
What is the risk for baby?
A. High risk
B. No risk

C. Advice not to have child
D. Low risk and nil if mother test negative
Answer: D
2345. 28-year-old pregnant woman presents with a ﺎﻣ رﻛذا هدﻣﻟاhistory of cough, Green sputum, low-grade fever,
night sweats, and weight loss. Interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) is positive.
What is the definitive investigation to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Chest X-ray
B. Tuberculin skin test (Mantoux)
C. Sputum for AFB smear and culture
Answer: C
2346. 32 yo woman w choriocarcinoma + lung mets
Stage III + WHO prognostic score of 10
Rx?
A. total hysterectomy
B. (can’t remember)
C. MTX monotherapy
D. multidrug chemo
2347. A 14-year-old patient presented with a painless neck swelling. Examination confirmed a midline neck swelling
below
the hyoid bone that moves up and down with swallowing.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Cystic hygroma
B. Thyroglossal cyst
C. Midline dermoid cyst
D. Submental lymphadenopathy
Answer: B
Q: Also SC of child with a midline neck mass O/E the mass moves upward with swallowing and protrusion of the
tongue
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Branchial Cyst

B. Thyroglossal Cyst
C. Zenker's Diverticulum
Answer: B. Thyroglossal Cyst
2348. A 60-year-old man with chronic history of heartbum for several years, presented with occasional
hematemesis. Upper I endoscopy revealed intestinal-type metaplasia at the distal esophagus.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Oesophagitis
B. Mallory-weiss tear
C. Barretts oesophagus
D. Plummer vinson syndrome
Answer: C
2349. Old male presented with left side body weakness resolve completely after 20
minutes, brain ct normal, carotid ultrasounds show stenosis > 55%
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Aspirin
B. Apixaban
C. Warfarin
D. Carotid endarterectomy
Answer: A
2350. Senna syrup is used to treat chronic constipation, which of the following is considered a
serious adverse effect / side effect ?
A- Diarrhea
B- Abdominal cramps
C- Hypokalemia
D- Synergic effect
Answer: C
2351. A 6-years old with noticed progressive jaundice and mild tremors with decreased school performance. On
examination
there is stigmata of few chronic liver injuries.
See labs.

Hb 7
Retics 6
Direct bilirubin 20
Total bilirubin 25
What is the gold standard for diagnosis?
A. Liver biopsy
B. Liver HIDA scan
C. Bone marrow aspiration
D. 24h urine copper excretion
Answer: A
2352. A 6-years old with noticed progressive jaundice and mild tremors with decreased school performance. On
examination there is stigmata of few chronic liver injuries.
See labs.
Hb 7
Retics 6
Direct bilirubin 20
Total bilirubin 25
What is the Most appropriate Investigation?
A. Liver biopsy
B. Liver HIDA scan
C. Bone marrow aspiration
D. 24h urine copper excretion
Answer: D
2353. A 2-year-old girl brought to Primary Clinic because the mother noticed she is pale. She had history of
drinking 3 glasses of cow's milk daily, very picky eater and refusing to eat meat. The mother gave
history of similar presentation on 2 of her brother (see lab results). Test Result Normal Values RBC 3
4.8-7.1 x 1012/L (Newborn) 4.6-4.8 x 1012/L (Child) Hb 4 165-195 g/L (Newborn) 112-165 g/L(Child) MCH 18 28-33
pg/cell
MCV 62 80-95 f1
Reticulocyte 3 0.2-1.2 %
Platelets count 480
150-400 x 109/L
Ferritin 9 20-200 g/L
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

A. Sickle cell disease
B. Alpha thalassemia trait
C. Iron deficiency anemia
D. Anemia of chronic disease
Answer: A
2354. A 2-year-old girl brought to Primary Clinic because the mother noticed she is pale. History of
drinking 3 pints of cow's milk daily and is a very picky eater. The mother gave history of similar
presentation on 2 of her brother (see lab results).
Test Result Normal Values
RBC 3 4.8-7.1 x 1012/L (Newborn) 4.6-4.8 x 1012/L (Child)
Hb 4 165-195 g/L (Newborn) 112-165 g/L (Child)
MCH 18 28-33 pg/cell
MCV 62 80-95 fl
Reticulocyte 3 0.2-1.2 %
Platelets count 480 150-400 x 109/L
Ferritin 9 20-200 ug/L
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Sickle cell disease
B. Alpha thalassemia trait
C. Iron deficiency anemia
D. Anemia of chronic disease
Answer: C
2355. A 2-Year-Old Girl Brought To Primary Clinic Because The Mother Noticed She Is Pale. She Had History Of
Drinking
excessive amounts Of Milk and refuse to eat and solid food, Very Picky Eater And Refusing To Eat Meat. The
Mother Gave History Of Similar
Presentation On 2 Of Her Brother.
Lab Results:
RBC: 3
Hb: 4
MCH: 18
MCV: 62
Reticulocyte: 3%
Platelets Count: 480

Ferritin: 9
Which Of The Following Is The Most Likely Diagnosis?
A. Sickle Cell Disease
B. Alpha Thalassemia Trait
C. Iron Deficiency Anemia
D. Anemia Of Chronic Disease
Answer: C
2356. An 8-year-old girl presents to the Emergency Room by her mother after ingestion of large amount of
acetaminophen tablets. According to the mother, she ingested full 2 packs, containing 20 tablets. 1 day
ago after she had fight with her. On examination, she has right upper quadrant abdominal pain, with
nausea and vomiting
Blood pressure 95/50 mmg, Heart rate 135 /min, Respiratory rate 25 /min
Temperature 36.6 °C
Oxygen saturation 95 %
Which phase of acetaminophen toxicity she is at?
A. Phase 1
B. Phase 2
C. Phase 3
D. Phase 4
Answer: B
2357. 10 Y/O Child with cystic fibrosis, and the parent is asking what the proper counseling for this patient is. Which of
the following is most appropriate?
A. Oral glucose tolerance test yearly
B. Fasting blood glucose yearly
C. No Need to test until 18 years old
D. Random blood glucose every six months
Answer: A. Oral glucose tolerance test yearly
2358. A 2-year-old girl with a high, relapsing fever of 9-day duration associated with marked irritability. a non-purulent
conjunctivitis, red cracked lips, swollen and erythematous hands and feet, and a maculopapular erythematous
rash on the trunk and extremities.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Epstein bar viral infection

B. Kawasaki disease
C. Rubella infection
D. Measles
Answer: B
2359. During a normal newborn exam, an absent red reflex in the eye and cardiac mummer are discovered.
After interviewing the mother, she gave a history of viral infection during the first trimester.
Which of the following infections can cause this?
A. Rubella
B. Syphilis
C. Toxoplasmosis
D. Cytomegalovirus
Answer: A
2360. A 3-year-old girl found during health campaign in poor area to have generalized edema, sever wasting,
hyperkeratosis,
distended abdomen and sparse hair (see lab results).
Blood pressure 85/45 mmHg
Heart rate 80 / min
Respiratory rate 25 /min Temperature 36.0 °C
Test Result Normal Values
Sodium 132 134-146 mmol/L Potassium 3.2 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Magnesium 0.4 0.7-1.0 mmol/L Glucose
3.1 2.8-5 mmol/L (Newborn) 3.3 -5.5 mmol/L (Child)
Albumin 20 36-52 g/L
Which of the following contributes to the finding?
A. Vitamin B12 deficiency
B. Vitamin D deficiency
C. Severe protein malnutrition
D. Sever carbohydrate malnutrition
Answer: C
2361. A 50-year-old man with a history of heavy smoking presents for a routine health checkup. He is
asymptomatic and has no known chronic medical conditions. According to preventive screening
recommendations, which of the following conditions is most important to screen for in this patient?
A. Osteoporosis
B. Colon cancer

C. Abdominal aortic aneurysm
D. Prostate cancer screening
Answer: B
2362. A 26-year-old male presents for evaluation of a systolic murmur noted during a routine checkup. He is
asymptomatic, with no history of chest pain, dyspnea, or palpitations. On auscultation, a mid-systolic click
followed by a late systolic murmur is heard best at the apex.
Bedside maneuvers:
The murmur increases with standing or Valsalva
The murmur decreases with handgrip or squatting
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A) Degenerative mitral regurgitation
B) Secondary mitral regurgitation
C) Functional mitral regurgitation
D) Mitral valve prolapse (MVP)
Answer: D
2363.
Answer: D. Elective intubation and mechanical ventilation
2364. child presents 6 hours after ingestion of a coin. The child is clinically stable. Radiographic imaging confirms the
coin is in the stomach. What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Ultrasound
B. Immediate endoscopy
C. Wait until it passes
D. CT abdomen
Answer: C. Wait until it passes
2365. A 4-year-old child is brought by their mother due to bedwetting every night. What is the appropriate

management?
A) Reassure the mother
B) Perform a urine culture
C) Perform a urine analysis
D) Perform an EEG
Reassure: A
2366. 2 years old boy was playing with his brother and fell downstairs had breif jircky movements at home and on
exam
was drwosy and lathergic
What is the most appropriate ( without next)
A. CT brain
B. Observe
C. Blood electrolytes
D. Neurosurgery referral
Answer: A. CT brain
2367. 18 months old had kawasaki and was received IVIG, which vaccine can she take in her appointment?
A. MMR
B. Varicella
C. DTap
D. Measles
Answer: C
2368. A 67-year-old man presents with insomnia, irritability and palpitation for 3 months. He is known to have
hypertension, depression and atrial fibrillation. He is on amiodarone, fluoxetine and enalopril. Clinically,
he is unremarkable. Blood pressure 130/70 mmHg, Heart rate 76 /min, Oxygen saturation 95 %
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Add propranolol
B. Measure thyroxin level and TSH
C. Substitution of antidepressant drug
D. Refer him for psychiatric assessment
Answer: B

2369. 33 weeks preterm baby diabetic mother, presented with grunting, respiratory distress What to do (with
picture of ground glass appearance) :
A- bilateral chest tube insertion
B- iv antibiotics
C- refer to cardiology
D- intratracheal exogenous surfactant
Answer: D
2370.
2371. A 6-year-old girl developed reddish urine. Her parents state that she had been constipated for the last 2 weeks
and recently became incontinent. On examination, there is abdominal tenderness, and no organomegaly (see
lab results). Blood pressure 115/76 mmHg Heart rate 76/min Respiratory rate 27 /min Temperature 38.9° C Test
Result Normal Values WBC 9.5 4.5-10.5 x 109/L Hb 79 112-165 g/L Platelets count 325 150-400 × 109/L Urine
Analysis Result
Normal Values Leukocytes 25-30 0-3 per high power field Erythrocytes 30-35 0-2 per high
power field Protein + Absent Blood +++ Absent
Which of the following is most likely diagnosis?
A. Urinary tract infection
B. Henoch-schönlein purpura
C. Autoimmune haemolytic anemia
D. Post streptococcal glomerulonephritis
Answer: A
2372. A 7-month-old infant presents with signs of UTI, Stable not dehydrated. Alert and feeding.
Urinalysis : + Nitrite, +leukocytes.
Fever: 39.1
What’s the appropriate empirical antibiotic to be started?
A) Oral amoxicillin
B) Oral azithromycin
C) Ciprofloxacin
D) IV Cefepime
Answer: A

2373. A 9-year-old girl is brought to the Emergency Department with abnormal movements and a
recent history of tea colored urine. Her parents described a preceding skin eruption. On
examination, the child looks unwell, unresponsive and lower limb swelling is noted (see lab
results).
Blood pressure 155/105 mmHg
Heart rate 110/min
Respiratory rate 25 /min
Temperature 37.4° C
Test Result Normal Values
Hb 78 112-165 g/L
Platelets count 165 150-400 x 109/L
Blood urea nitrogen 13.1 1.8 to 6.4 mol/L
Creatinine 101 27-88 mol/L
Complement C3 0.5 0.7-1.5 g/L
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Post streptococcal glomerulonephritis
B. Hemolytic uraemic syndrome
C. Henoch-schönleinpurpura
D. Acute renal failure
Answer: A
2374. previously healthy 13-month-old girl has 2-day history of fever and increasing cough. She continued to be
breastfed
with no vomiting. Her immunizations are up to date. She is alert and mildly ill appearing. On examination, there is no
grunting or chest retractions. There are crackles heard over the right lung base. The remainder of the examination
findings are normal. She has no known allergies.
Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg
Heart rate 1 4 6 / m i n
Respiratory rate 45/min
Temperature 38.6 °C
Oxygen saturation 95 %
Which of the following is the most likely pathogen?
A. Moraxella catarrhalis
B. Mycoplasma pneumonia
C. Streptococcus pneumonia
D. Haemophilus influenza type B

Answer: C
2375.A 12-year-old boy has joint hyperextensibility and is taller than his classmates (1.78m). No systemic
abnormalities
noted.
What is the likely diagnosis?
Marfan syndrome
B. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
C. Klinefelter syndrome
Answer: A
2376. A 37-year-old G3 P1011 at 28 weeks' gestation had vaginal spotting 2 weeks ago but no abdominal cramping or
passing any clots or tissue. Examination reveals fundal height equivalent to 18 weeks' size. Ultrasound confirms
lack of fetal heart activity and no fetal movement.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Fetal demise
B. Missed abortion
C. Incomplete abortion
D. Gestational trophoblastic disease
Answer: A
2377. child with allergic rhinitis still sneezing and nasal cognition even after take antihistamine:
A. intranasal corticosteroid
B. Montelukast
C. oral decongestant
D. Allergy immunotherapy
Answer: A
2378. Boy complains of URTI, treated. 2 weeks later comes with itchy nose, and congestion on examination
there is tenderness on the frontal cheeks . What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Bacterial Sinusitis
B- Allergic rhinitis
C- Foreign body obstruction
D- Nasal polyps

Answer: A
Q: child had an URTI for 4 days (he has clear nasal discharge, fever, sneezing) , 3 days after resolving of the symptoms
he
presented with purulent nasal discharge and frontal tenderness. What's the diagnosis?
A- Viral upper respiratory tract infection
B- Acute Bacterial sinusitis
C- Allergic Rhinosinusitis
D- unrelated
Answer: B
2379. A 45-year-old diabetic man presented with dull aching headache increases with straining and
coughing, there is tenderness all over the eyebrows. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A- Viral meningitis
B- TB meningitis
C- Brain abscess
D- Sinusitis
Answer: D
2380. A 19-year-old woman 23-week pregnant
primigravida presents with a complaint of irregular
brownish
patches of varying sizes on face and neck (see
image). Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Melasma
B. Chloasma
C. Tinea nigra
D. Lichen planus
B. Chloasma (MG)
2381. A 10-month-old boy is brought to the OPD. His mother reports he missed his 7-month and 9-month
vaccinations.
What is the best course of action?

A. Start catch-up vaccination
B. Give all missed vaccines in a single dose
C. Do not give him the missed vaccines
D. Restart vaccination schedule from beginning
Answer: A
2382. Child with recurrent chest infection and poorly controlled bronchial asthma and foul-smelling stool.
Positive sweat chloride test (66 i think).
What most frequent complication?
A. Pulmonary Emphysema
B. Bronchiectasis
C. Hypothyroidism
D. Malignancy
Answer: B
2383. A pediatric patient came to the ER complaining of abdominal pain and gaseous distention, he had 7 times foul
smelling watery diarrhea. His parents report going into camping where the source of water
was contaminated
What is the most appropriate management
A- Supportive
B- Clindamycin
C- Metronidazole
D. Loperamide
Answer: C
2384. A7-year-old boy who has recently visited his grandfather's farm, now presents to you with diarrhea, miosis,
vomiting, lacrimation, salivation, excessive urination, and a garlic odor in his mouth. Which of the following should be
administered?
A. Atropine
B. N-acetylcysteine
C. Flumazenil
D. Sodium bicarbonate
Answer: A

2385. 47-year-old woman with multiple comorbidities, including obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), presents with heavy
menstrual bleeding secondary to uterine fibroids. She has completed her family and prefers a non-surgical treatment.
What is the most appropriate management?
A. GnRH agonist
B. Uterine artery embolization
C. Counsel her that the definitive treatment is hysterectomy
D. Myomectomy
Answer: B
2386. Acute mesenteric ischemia history of ischemic stroke 1 month ago what is the initial management ?
A. Angiography and embolectomy
B. Thrombolysis
C. IV hydration and heparin
D. Us abdomen
Answer: C
2387. Child with a history of going to birthday party , developed fever and KOPLIK spots in the mouth and mucopapular
rash in the trunk - what is the mood if transition
A - from contaminated surfaces
B - from contaminated food and drinks
C - airborne from body secretions
D - forgot
Answer: C
Q: A 3-year-old child presents with symptoms consistent with measles. Three of the child’s siblings also have similar
symptoms.v What is the most likely mode of transmission of this infection?
A. Airborne
B. Droplet
C. Fecal-oral
D. Bloodborne
Answer: A
2388. A 14-year-old-boy presents for a routine paediatrics exam. There is no history of any major illness. Physical
examination confirms an irregular pulse with no other abnormal findings (see image).
Blood pressure 115/70 mmHg

Heart rate 80 /min
Respiratory rate 20 /min
Temperature 36.8° C
Oxygen saturation 95% on room air
Height 175 cm (> 90th percentile
Weight 45 kg (25th percentile)
Which of the following is most likely prognosis?
A. Syncopal episodes
B. Need of pacemaker
C. Normal development
D. Myocardial dysf
Answer: C. Normal development (MG)
2389. Female at 39w of gestation, Examination shows polyhydramnios,
Which Condition might be associated with her?
A. Trisomy 21
B. Renal agenesis
C. Intrauterine Growth Retardation (IUGR)
D. Pneumothorax
Answer: A. Trisomy 21
2390. A newborn infant weighing 2 kg (small for gestational age) is noted to have a depressed nasal bridge,
hypertelorism,
upward slanting palpebral fissures, and an elevated epicanthal fold.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Chromosomal analysis
B. Metabolic screening
C. Congenital infection screening (TORCH)
D. Skeletal survey
Answer: A
2391. A 30-year-old woman in her first pregnancy had an ultrasound confirming Dichorionic Diamniotic twins.
What was the time interval between ovulation and cleavage?
A. 0-72 hours

B. 4-8 days
C. 9-12 days
D. >12 days
Answer: A (GB)
2392. A 30-year-old woman in her first pregnancy had an ultrasound confirming Monochorionic Diamniotic twins.
What was the time interval between ovulation and cleavage?
A. 0-72 hours
B. 4-8 days
C. 9-12 days
D. >12 days
Answer: B (GB)
2393. A 30-year-old woman in her first pregnancy had an ultrasound confirming Monochorionic Monoamniotic twins.
What was the time interval between ovulation and cleavage?
A. 0-72 hours
B. 4-8 days
C. 9-12 days
D. >12 days
Answer: C (GB)
2394. 8 y.o child presents with recurrent chest pain, found in high status, joints are laxed,
and fingers arachnodactyly
Which of the following is most appropriate to rule out life threatening causes?
A. ECG
B. MRI Brain
C. CT Chest
D. Echocardiography
Answer: D. Echocardiography
2395. A 5-week-old infant is brought to the clinic with a 3-week history of intermittent vomiting. After vomiting, the
infant
becomes very hungry and wants to feed again. Physical examination shows no alterations apart from a
2.50 kg weight loss (see lab results).

Test Results Normal Values Sodium 147 134-146 mol/L , Potassium 2.9 3.5-5.1 mmol/L ,Bicarbonate 32 21-28
mmol/L
, Chloride 89 97-108 mmol/L
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Gastric volvulus
B. Cyclic vomiting syndrome
C. Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis
D. Intestinal malrotation with volvulus
Answer: C. Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (MG)
2396. A 6 years old was brought by his parents with history of sudden abrupt loss of
environmental awareness with lip smacking followed by sudden return to normal baseline.
Brain Imaging= Normal, EEG 3-Hz spikes
Which of the following is the most appropriate diagnosis?
A. complicated febrile seizure
B. Absence seizure
C. Infantile spasm
D. cerebral palsy
Answer: B
2397. Patient arrived to ER after head injury, upon Glasgow Coma Scale calculation, he can open
eyes to painful stimuli, localizes the pain and says groaning sounds only, what is the
calculated GCS for him?
A- 8
B- 9
C- 10
D- 11
Answer: B- 9
2398. An obese young lady presented with irregular periods. Her BMI is 35. What is the most appropriate advice?
A) Reassure her that irregular periods are normal
B) Weight reduction and lifestyle modification
C) Start oral contraceptive pills (OCPs)

Answer: B
2399. Female diagnosed with pCO and she is trying to conceive what to give :
A. OCP
B. metformin
C. clomiphene citrate
Answer: C
2400. 66-year-old man with hypertension comes to the clinic for a follow-up. He is currently taking a combination of
losartan and
amlodipine, which is failing to keep his blood pressure within target. Examination is unremarkable. His blood test and
renal
function profile were within the normal limits. What is the most appropriate next step assuming he has no relevant
contraindications?
A. Add ramipril 1.25mg od
B. Add atenolol 50mg od
C. Add doxazosin 1mg od
D. Add indapamide MR 1.5mg od
Answer: D (MG)
2401. Newborn with midline face deformity diagnosed with panhypopituitarism ( diagnosis is
written) Thyroid low , Cortisol low , Growth Hormone low ( written no values )
What to do ?
A- Give hydrocortisone
B- Give thyroxine
C- Give recombinant growth hormone
D- Wait 1 month and repeat labs
Answer: A
2402. regnant woman requires an urgent cesarean section. The physician explains the risks and benefits. Her husband
agrees to the procedure, but she refuses. Which of the following is the most appropriate action?
A. Prevail upon the mother's decision
B. Prevail upon the father's decision
C. Refer for psychiatric assessment
D. Perform the cesarean section despite her refusal

Answer: A
2403. 10 weeks pregnant with ruptured ectopic pregnancy and hypotensive and unconscious:
A. wait family to consent
B. proceed for surgery
C. court order for consent
Answer: B
2404. A 4-Year-Old Child Presents With Shortness Of Breath And Cough Following Flu-Like Illness For 2 Days.
Examination
Reveals Child In Severe Distress With Increased Effort Of Respiration With Bilateral Wheeze And Prolonged
Expiratory Phase. He Had Similar Attacks Before That Required Hospitalization.
Blood Pressure: 100/65 mmHg
Heart Rate: 124 /min
Respiratory Rate: 33 /min
Temperature: 36.6 °C
Oxygen Saturation: 82 %
Which Of The Following Is The Most Appropriate Management?
A. Antibiotic And Systematic Steroid
B. Ventolin Nebulization And Antibiotics
C. Intravenous Fluid And Ventolin Nebulization
D. Ventolin Nebulization And Systematic Steroid
Answer: D
2405.
2406. Pediatric patient age 2 days old post SVD presented to the ER with bleeding and hemarthrosis labs showed

Prolonged PTT, Normal PT
no family history of bleeding
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A)Factor 8 VIII disease
B)Immune thrombocytopenic purpura
C)Syndrome...
D)Liver disease
Answer: A
2407. ld Patient came with Cirrhosis and massive hematemesis, became drowsy, and blood
oozing out from his mouth,
What is the next step of management?
A. Blood transfusion
B. Endotracheal tube
C. Injection Octreotide
D. Urgent Endoscopy
Answer: B
2408. 39 wks pregnant with IUFD what to do:
A. C/S
B. discharge for spontaneous delivery
C. induction of labour with oxytocin and PGE2
Answer: C
2409. Second trimester pregnant didn't have measles before when to immunize her :
A. now
B. postpartum
Answer: B
2410. A 24 year old female G2P1, found to have a 7 week gestation ectopic pregnancy. One dose of methotrexate was
given, and the following β-HCG values were measured from dose date:
-Day 1: 1800 mmol
-Day 2: 1200 mmol
-Day 3: 400 mmol

-Day 4: 70 mmol
-Day 5: 70 mmol
Which of the following approach would you do?
A. Continue monitoring β-HCG and send home
B. Immediate surgical management
C. Laparotomy
D. Administer methotrexate regimen
Answer: A
2411. A 35-year-old woman presented to the clinic for preconception counseling. She is known to have hypertension
and is
on ACE inhibitors.
Which of the following is the most appropriate for her antihypertensive medication when she gets pregnant?
A. Continue on ACE inhibitors as it is safe
B. Continue because the benefit outweighs the risk
C. Cannot be stopped, so she should not get pregnant
D. Switch to alternative antihypertensive due to fetal kidney teratogenicity
Answer: D (GB)
2412. A 6-year-old girl presents to the Emergency Department with a 10-hour history of feeling unwell and tired. On
examination, she is pale, has a palpable liver, and her spleen is 6 cm below the costal margin.
Vital signs: BP 93/55 mmHg, HR 169/min, RR 28/min, Temp 37.5°C
Lab results:
Hb: 52 g/L (112–165)
Platelets: 102 × 10⁹/L (150–400)
Sickle cell screen: Positive
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Sequestration crisis
B. Evans syndrome
C. Bacterial sepsis
D. Aplastic crisis
Answer: A (MG)

2413. A middle-aged man with diabetes mellitus is on metformin and aspirin. His labs show elevated creatinine and
high
BUN. He is planning to travel and asks about prophylaxis for traveler’s diarrhea.
Which of the following is the most appropriate option?
A. Bismuth subsalicylate
B. Fluoroquinolone
C. No medication
D. Probiotics
Answer: C
We need the exact number of Cr level and BUN, If severe CKD or ESKD then answer is A
2414. Patient in 60s diagnosed with prostate cancer presenting with back pain , urine retention and maybe lower limb
weakness
What is the Appropriate Next Step:
A- Refer to physiotherapy
B- Outpatient MRI
C- IV Dexamethasone
D- Oral analgesia and reassess after 24 hours
Answer: C
2415. A mother was concerned of ADHD in her child (8 years) . She described him at home as restless and cannot
focus.
Upon your assessment he is a calm child with normal behavior. What is the best action:
A- Obtain further information from parents and teachers
B- Start him on trial of amphetamines
C- Reassure the mother that these are normal behaviors at his age
D. Do neurological exam
Answer: A
2416. 8 years old girl brought to primary healthcare clinic by her mother, complaining of poor concentration and
hyperactivity at school. Her teacher noticed that she has difficulty staying seated at her place. The mother
reported that her daughter only sleeps 5 hours per night from 1 AM to 6 AM.
What’s the most appropriate step in management?

A) Start Melatonin 1 Mg daily
B) Neurological examination
C) Structured Sleep routine
D) Blood test to check for Anemia
Answer: C
2417.7-year-old child is reported to be hyperactive, restless, talks rapidly, and has violent outbursts. What intervention
can help mitigate these issues?
A- Regular preschool examinations
B- Decreasing time spent on video games and watching television
C- Parenting classes for behavior management
D- Special education resources
Answer: C
2418.
2419. 24-year-old obese woman, no previous pregnancy, complains of irregular menstrual periods. Menarche was at
age of
14 and her periods were irregular in timing, duration and flow. The last menstrual flow was scanty 3 months ago.
History of weight gain since menarche along with facial acne and mild facial hirsutism (see lab results).
Test Result / Normal Values:
Testosterone: 3.4 (0.7–2.8)
Sex hormone-binding globulin: 9 (13–17)
Luteinizing hormone (LH): 31 (5–22)
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH): 2.1 (5–20)
Random Glucose: 6.1 (3.9–5.5)
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Turner’s syndrome
B. Exogenous obesity
C. Premature ovarian failure

D. Polycystic ovary syndrome
Answer: D (MG)
2420. A healthy 7-year-old boy presents with short stature. He has normal growth velocity but delayed bone age.
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Reassure the parents that the child will reach normal height by puberty
B. Order basic investigations (CBC, electrolytes, bone profile)
C. Advise more sunlight exposure
D. Advise avoidance of dairy products
Answer: A
2421. A 3-month-old boy presented to the Emergency Room with history paroxysmal episodes of cough followed by
whooping
sounds at the end of each episode. It is associated with perioral cyanosis and post- tussive vomiting. There is no
history of
diarrhea. This illness has been preceded by runny nose a few days ago. History revealed he did not receive his
2-month
vaccine yet. On examination, the child looks unwell and tachypneic. Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Pertussis
B. Adenovirus pneumonia
C. Mycoplasma pneumonia
D. Chiamydia trachomatis pneumonia
Answer: A (MG)
2422. A 3-month-old boy presented to the Emergency Room with history paroxysmal episodes of staccato
cough, inspiration between each cough. It is associated with perioral cyanosis and post-tussive vomiting.
There is no history of diarrhea. This illness has been preceded by conjunctivitis few days ago. On
examination, the child looks unwell and tachypneic with auscultatory crackles. He has normal white
blood cell count with elevated eosinophils on laboratory evaluation. Which of the following is the most
likely diagnosis?
A. Pertussis
B. Adenovirus pneumonia
C. Mycoplasma pneumonia
D. Chlamydia trachomatis pneumonia

Answer: D (MG)
2423. A 3-month-old boy presented to the Emergency Room with history paroxysmal episodes of cough
associated with an inspiratory whoop and possessive emesis. It is associated with fever, conjunctival
redness and diarrhea. His immunization is up to date. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Pertussis
B. Adenovirus infection
C. Mycoplasma pneumonia
D. Chlamydia trachomatis pneumonia
Answer: B (MG)
2424. A 38-year-old woman presented with a 7-weeks of frequent, loose and bloody bowel movements that
associated with campy abdominal and rectal pain. She has family history of crohn's disease. Stool
analysis is negaive (see lab results). Blood pressure 110/70 mmH, Heart rate 76 /min, Temperature 36.6 °C
Test Result Normal Values
RBC 9.2 4.7-6.1 × 1012/L (Male)
4.2-5.4 x 1012/L (Female)
Hb 111 130-170 g/L (Male)
120-160 g/L (Female)
HCT 0.41 0.42-0.52 (Male)
0.37-0.48 (Female)
MCH 27 28-33 pg/cell
MCHC 330 320-360 g/L
MCV 77 80-95 f1
Platelets count 220 150-400 x 109/L
C-reacive pepide 22 <8.2 mg/L
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in establishing diagnosis?
A. Anorectal manometry
B. Upper GI endoscopy
C. Celiac disease tesing
D. Measurement of fecal calprotecin
Answer: B. Upper GI endoscopy (MG)
2425. A 71 years old man known IHD, complaining of severe central abdominal pain for

10 hours , and vomit 3 times on examination there was mild tenderness, there mild bowl
sluggish Amylase 400 and WBC 22K
A. Mesenteric ischemic
B. Acute pancreatitis
Answer: A
2426. Young male presented with vomiting of blood , he was heavy alcohol consumption stable endoscopy show
esophageal
varices what is the cause of varices :
A. Acute pancreatitis
B. Portal hypertension
C. Essential HTN
D. Budd Chiari syndrome
Answer: B
2427. A 30-year-old man with a known diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus presents with polyuria and polydipsia. He
is
taking vitamin D supplements for a previous deficiency. Family history: relative with type 1 DM.
Labs:
Elevated PTH
Normal calcium
HbA1c: 8%
Normal urine osmolality and serum osmolality
Elevated C-peptide: 0.09 ng/mL (Low)
Which is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Diabetes insipidus (DI)
B. Type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM1)
C. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2)
D. Hyperparathyroidism
Answer: B
2428. A patient is invited to participate in a clinical trial for a new drug. She is worried that she might be placed in the
placebo group. The doctor reassures her by saying, Don’t worry, You Will Receive Standard Care
Which ethical principle is most relevant to this situation?
A. Beneficence By Providing Standard Care

B. Non-maleficence By .....
C. Autonomy By Shared Decision Making (Smth Like This)
D. Justice By ....
Answer: A
2429. 5 year old child going for preschool vaccination,
what is the most important prevaccination preassessment
A. egg allergy
B. received recent immunoglobulin
C. current fever
D. lookout for previous vaccine site
Answer: B
2430. 47-year-old woman with large symptomatic uterine fibroid, heavy menstrual bleeding. Completed childbearing.
Significant comorbidities: uncontrolled DM and OSA. Prefers non-surgical management.
A. GnRH agonist
B. UAE
C. Counsel for hysterectomy
D. Counsel for myomectomy
Answer: B
2431. 46-year-old woman undergoes a routine screening mammogram, reported as completely normal.
She has no symptoms and no family history.
When should she do her next mammogram?
A. 6 months
B. 1 year
C. 2 years
D. 3 years
Answer: B. 1 year
"Above 50 → C. 2 years"
2432. Female 42 wants cancer screening, smoker for 18 years, no family history of cancer:
A. Bilateral mammogram

B. Colon cancer
C. Lung cancer
D. All of the above
Answer: A
Q: 42 year old female would like to have a full check up, and she is afraid of get cancer, negative family history and
smoker 1
pack/day for last 18 years, what is the appropriate screening for her?
A. CT
B. Colonoscopy
C. Bilateral mammogram
D. CT Lung, colonoscopy, bilateral mammogram
Answer: C
2433. A mechanic had an accidental injection of oil dissolving in his index finger. The finger is
red and swollen with mild tenderness and normal joint movement. What to give??
A. Abx
B. Abx and steroids
C. Surgical drainage
D. Elevation and ice packing
Answer: C
2434. 79-year-old male patient, post cholecystectomy, developed confusion and agitation. What to do?
A. Restraining
B. Keep in quiet room
C. Give antipsychotic
D. Routine orientation
Answer: D
2435. Has Fhx of DM T2 ,
A1c 8 (I guess)
Fasting Blood Glucose 9 (I guess)
BMI 34
which is the first line treatment here :
A. liraglutide

B. metformin
Answer: B
2436. 4 months old with poor weight gain. At birth it was 3.3 kg, then became 4 kg. His mother uses 2 spoons of milk
in 90 mL water, she feeds him every 3 hours. She's 19 years old, that's her first baby. What is the most likely cause of
failure to thrive?
A. Child neglect
B. Celiac disease
C. Inappropriate formula preparation
D. Decrease feeding frequency
Answer: C
2437. A man presents with small papules on his face after shaving.
(No pain, tenderness, erythema, or purulent discharge was mentioned.)
What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Folliculitis
B. Furuncle
2438. Child diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome came to ER with abdominal pain and distention mother said he vomit
immediately everything he take what could be /-
A. pancreatitis
B. hepatitis
C. peritonitis
D. heart failure
2439. A 15-year-old girl is brought for evaluation of primary amenorrhea. Physical examination reveals normal breast
development but absent pubic and axillary hair. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Androgen insensitivity

B. Müllerian agenesis (MRKH)
C. Gonadal failure
D. Turner syndrome
Answer: Androgen insensitivity
2440. FEMALE AT 37 weeks, what is prerequisite of ECV?
A. Maternal fasting 6 hrs
B. Early and late dating confirmation
C. 30 min fetal monitoring
Answer: C
2441. 33-year-old nulliparous woman with cyclic pelvic pain and dyschezia underwent diagnostic laparoscopy. Most
likely
diagnosis?
A. Pelvic TB
B. Adenomyosis
C. Endometriosis
D. Pelvic inflammatory disease
Answer: C
2442. developed large neck swelling on the left side. On exam it is large 10 cm in size, US FNA showed
clear lymphatic fluid. What is the appropriate management?
A. Surgery
B. Observation
C. Chemotherapy
D. Radiotherapy
No Sclerotherapy
Answer: A
2443. A patient underwent surgery and developed an infection as a complication. There was a nurse from another
department
who is a family friend. She opened the patient's file to see why she got the infection, "to check on her." The patient
found
out and filed a complaint. What's the proper action?

A. Ignore and dismiss the issue
B. Train the staff on confidentiality and privacy
C. Inform patient and document
D. Investigation and take a legal action
Answer: D
2444. A 29-year-old woman presented to the clinic unsure of her gestational age. She missed her period 3 months ago
but her
periods are irregular. Ultrasound: determined gestational age as 11 weeks. Which of the following was measured in the
ultrasound to determine gestational age?
A. Femur length
B. Crown-rump length
C. Abdominal circumference
D. Biparietal diameter and head circumference
Answer: B
Second Trimester ➔ D
Third Trimester ➔ C
2445. 12-week-old child with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome with the mother concerned about increased risk for liver
lesion.
What tumor marker will you use?
A. Urine oxalic level (UOL)
B. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)
C. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
D. Urine Homovanillic acid (HVA) and vanillylmandelic acid (VMA)
Answer: B
AFP is used to screen for hepatoblastoma in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome
2446. patient came to ER after he loss concious after he regained it he experience sever headache describing it as
worse headache
he ever had plain ct showed: Subarachnoid Hemorrhage and Hydrocephalus
how are you going to investigate the affected artery ?
A. MRI with contrast
B. Lumpur puncture
C. CT angiography

D. Transcranial doppler ultrasound
Answer: C
2447. Female with vulvar pain. On examination there is an ulcer in the labia minora with ragged edges, necrotic
center, and regional lymphadenopathy (picture provided). What is the diagnosis?
A. Chancroid
B. HIV
C. Herpes zoster
Answer: A
2448. A 50-year-old woman with a history of involuntary urine leak, especially when she runs. Which of the following
is the most appropriate next clinical evaluation?
A. Q-Tip test
B. Cough test
C. Bonney test
D. Uroflowmetry
Answer: B
2449. lady who was diagnosed with ectopic pregnancy she lives far (The Mentioned Specific Distance) from the
clinic and her vitals as follows:
Bp 90/69 [NOT SURE]
Hr 112
And bmi 31
What is the contraindications for mtx:
A. Living far
B. Vitals
C. Bmi
2450. 24-year-old primigravida presents with the diagnosis of right ectopic pregnancy. The ultrasound revealed a 3 cm
right tubal
gestational sac with 5-week crown rump length, negative fetal heart activity and minimal amount of fluid in the pouch
of Douglas.
Her social history reveals that she lives in a village 80 km away from the city center (see lab result).

Blood pressure 90/50 mmHg
Heart rate 110 /min
Temperature 35.6 °C
BMI 36 kg/m²
Human chorionic gonadotropin 3500
Which of the following would be the absolute contraindication to the use of methotrexate for this patient?
A. The B-hCG level and ultrasound findings
B. The far distance from medical services
C. The high body mass index
D. The vital signs
Answer: D
2451. women had a baby through a success vaginal delivery. What are you going to do to prevent infection during post
partum period ?
A. hand washing
B. switz bath
C. prophylactic antibiotics
D. Frequent irrigation of the perineal area with special Sanitizers
Answer: A
2452. RTA with dull percussion on exam and chest tube was inserted, Which of the following is an indication for
surgical intervention?
A. initial output > 500 ml
B. Ongoing output more than 200 ml/hr
C. combined hemothorax with pneumothorax
D. drop in Hemoglobin and hematocrit
Answer: B
2453. MVA patient with hemothorax managed by thoracostomy (chest tube). What's the indication of thoracotomy?
A. 200 ml/hr for 4 hours
B. Initial 500 ml
Answer: A

2454. kid have cough worsening with crying he ask what will you hear in auscultation
A. Strider
B. Weezing
C. Crackles
D. Gasping
2455. 40-year-old patient diagnosed with essential HTN, the doctor discussed with him the role of physical activity in
reducing
cardiovascular risk. Which of the following is the recommended physical activity?
A. 10 min swimming once a week
B. Weight lifting every 2 weeks
C. 30 min brisk walking for 5 times a week
D. 10 min cycling most days of the week
Answer: 30 min brisk walking for 5 times a week
2456. A 6-year-old boy complains of passing Coca-cola-coloured urine for the last week, with periorbital puffiness
worse in the morning
and fever. Congested throat and anterior cervical lymphadenopathy on exam. Which is the next best investigation?
A. Urine culture
B. Renal ultrasound

C. Renal biopsy
D. Urine analysis
Answer: D
2457. A kid who won't move his lower limb presents with a swollen, hot, tender knee. What to do?
A. Blood culture
B. Synovial fluid aspiration
C. IV antibiotics
Answer: B
2458.A 7-year-old child presents with signs of meningitis. Laboratory investigations reveal a
blood glucose level of 4.8 mg/dL. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis shows:
Protein: 450 mg/dL (normal range: 150–450)
Glucose: 3.8 mg/dL (normal range: 2.8–4.8)
Predominant lymphocytic pleocytosis
Which of the following is the most likely cause of meningitis in this case?
A. Viral
B. Bacterial
C. Tuberculous
Answer: A
2459.A 41-year-old woman Para 4 presented to the Gynecology Clinic with post-coital bleeding for the past three
months.
Her cycle is irregular, and she is not taking any contraception. Examination revealed a soft abdomen with no
palpable masses.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Pap smear
B. Pelvic ultrasound
C. Endometrial biopsy
D. Dilatation and curettage
Answer: A
2460.A mother brings her infant to the well-baby clinic, where the physician decides to prescribe

vitamin D. Which of the following is the best way to write the prescription?
A- 400 U PO OD
B- 400 Unit PO OD
C- 400 Unit PO daily
D- Four hundred unit oral daily
Answer: C
How to write Vitamin D dose ?
A. Vit D 400 U OD
B. Vit D 400 units OD
C. Vit D 400 unit daily
D. Vit D 400 U daily
Answer: C
2461.During nurse handover, it is discovered that a child with peanut allergy and asthma received medications without
the
allergy being documented.
Which ethical principle applies?
A- Proper documentation of patient history
B- Use two patient identifiers
C- Improve communication to ensure patient safety and good healthcare
D- Patient education
Answer: C
2462.A 15-year-old boy presents to the clinic for an annual physical assessment. The patient has normal growth and
development and is able to do usual activities. His elder brother died due to a sudden cardiac death while walking to
work. On physical examination, there is no cardiac murmur. Pulses are equal in all extremities.
Which condition must be excluded before any sport is allowed?
A. Bicuspid aortic valve
B. Patent ductus arteriosus
C. Ventricular septal defect
D. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Answer: D

2463. A 20-year-old man with a history of high liver function test in the past presents, with tremors and dysarthria and
dyskinesia. Slit-lamp examination reveals a greenish-brown ring at comeoscleral junction.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Antitrypsin deficiency
B. Hepatic hemangioma
C. Hemochromatosis
D. Wilsons disease
Answer: D
Q: 23-year-old female with abdominal pain, jaundice, personality changes and frequent episodes of seizure,
KayserFleischer ring is found in her eyes, low serum ceruloplasmin and high 24 hours urinary copper
what is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hemochromatosis
B. HCV infection
C. Primary biliary cirrhosis
D. Wilson disease
Answer: D. Wilson disease
2464. Treatment of chalazion:
A. Antibiotic
B. Warm compress
Answer: B
2465. After accident a patient came with warm lower extremities with normal chest exam , BP was low, HR70 what
kind of
shock?
Hypovolemic
Neurogenic
Cardiogenic
Septic
Answer: Neurogenic

2466. A patient presents to the clinic seeking help with smoking cessation. He already bought nicotine replacement
and he has
desire to stop? What this stage called:
Preparation
Action
Contemplation
Precontemplation
2467. A patient has recently stopped smoking and has started using nicotine replacement patches. The patient is
motivated to
quit smoking and is actively taking steps towards achieving that goal. Which stage of smoking cessation is
the patient currently in?
A) Action
B) Preparation
C) Contemplation
D) Precontemplation
Answer: A
2468. A question about a patient who visited a clinic, for some reason the doctor advised him to do surgery, the patient
was afraid
to do the surgery. He does not know the complications if he does not do the surgery. Which stage of change is this ?
A- Contemplation stage
B- Preparation stage
C- Action stage
D- Pre-contemplation stage
Answer: D
2469. A 45-year-old smoker came to the clinic for his diabetes follow-up.
During discussion, he acknowledged that smoking is not good for his health.
He plans to quit this year. According to the Stages of Change Model, at what stage of change is this patient?
A) Precontemplation
B) Contemplation
C) Preparation
D) Maintenance
Answer: B

2470. A patient presents to the clinic seeking help with smoking cessation. He already bought nicotine replacement
and he has
desire to stop? What this stage called:
Preparation
Action
Contemplation
Precontemplation
Answer: Action
2471. A newborn develops respiratory distress shortly after birth. Chest X-ray shows fluid in the interlobar fissures.
What is the most important in management?
A. NPO (withhold oral feeding)
B. Start empirical antibiotics
C. Give normal saline
Answer: C. Give normal saline
2472. A female patient presents with decreased need for sleep, increased energy, and rapid speech. What is the most
appropriate
treatment?
No Any Other Feature Mentioned In The Recall , Just Acute Mania (No Obesity , DLP , HTN , Etc Not “Mentioned” )
A. Lithium
B. SSRI for a depressive episode
C. Olanzapine for a manic episode
2473. Another question about gram negative diplococci
and what is the disses this Bactria cause
A-Neisseria meningitis
B-Group a streptococcus
C-Group b streptococcus
Answer: A
2474. Man had a car accident and he had “ interval consciousness” he was okay for 6 hours and get drowsy all over
again
A-Subarconid hemorrhage

B-Subdural hemorrhage
C-Extradural hemorrhage
Answer: C
2475. Man with ALL started chemotherapy and he developed fever after 8 days : I am sure it was 8 days .
A-Reassures
B-Broad spectrum antibiotics
C-Antibiotic and antifungal
Answer: B
2476. 9 years old child who had been bed weeting ,” his mother said he had POLYURIA AND POLYDIPSIA “
What is the firts invX :
A-Urine cultural
B-behavioral changes
C- random blood glucose
Answer: C
2477. blood transfusion after transfusion
following sudden breathlessness
How to prevent in future?
Give histamine before blood
Worm the blood
Q: Case about a 30-40 man getting blood transfusion in the ER and minutes after he got skin rash and
facial flushes:
How to prevent this:
A) Fast pushing the blood bag
B) Pre-Medicated Anti-histamine
C) Warming the blood bag
D) Matching the recipient with the donor ethnicity
Answer: B
2478. 25-year-old male came recently from India, presented to ER with RUQ pain, Night sweats, malaise, fever. US
showed: right

lobe Liver collection, Hypoechoic CT Finding: Thick walled abscess without septations. Which of the following is the
diagnosis?
Amoebic liver abscess
Pyogenic liver abscess
Hydatid cyst
TB abscess
Answer: Amoebic liver abscess
2479. Old age with 2 year history of progressive memory loss, had multiple attacks of weakness, decline in abilities
and cognitive
function, he was diagnosed with HIV 3 years ago, diagnosis?
A. Vascular dementia
B. Lewy body
C. Alzheimer
D. Hiv related dementia
Answer: A. Vascular dementia
2480. A 70-year-old male presents with a 2-year history of slow and progressive memory loss. He has a history of
hypertension,
diabetes, and multiple Attacks Of Weakness. It was discovered 3 years ago that he has HIV through routine
screening, he use his medication. He also exhibits apraxia, abnormal gait, and otherneurological symptoms. What is
the
diagnosis?
Examiner Said: I believe TIA was not mentioned by word
A. Lewy body dementia
Alzheimer's disease
HIV-related dementia
Vascular dementia
Answer: Vascular dementia
2481. Child i think he was 7yr came with ss of UTI asking about most diagnostic?
⁃ A- Mixed growth on clean mid stream urine
⁃ B- single growth colony × 105 of suprapubic urine
C- single growth of any colony of mid stream urine
D- single growth colony × 105 of bag urine

Answer: B- single growth colony × 105 of suprapubic urine
2482. A 60-year-old woman with a history of rheumatoid arthritis is treated with prednisolone 60 mg orally once daily
for an
acute exacerbation. She is instructed to continue the treatment for a short period and then gradually taper the dose.
However, the patient fails to follow the tapering instructions and continues taking prednisolone 60 mg daily for several
days. She is subsequently found dead at home.
Which of the following is the most likely cause of death?
A. Acute perforated peptic ulcer
B. Acute cerebral vasculitis
C. Hemorrhagic cerebrovascular accident
D. Acute adrenal insufficiency
E. Acute pancreatitis
Answer: C
2483.34 weeks gestation presents to ER with ROM.placenta was 1cm dilated.She delivers vaginally after 6hrs and with
2nd
degree perineal tear.Placental Delivery was delayed and was removed manually.
which of these indicates the reason of giving prophylactic antibiotics ?
A.2nd degree tear
B.ROM for more than 6 hrs
C.precipitous Labour
D. Manual removal of placenta
Answer: D
2484. young boy had upper respiratory tract infection three weeks ago. Now, dyspnea on exertion, and on examination
tachypnea, tachycardia, gallop rhythm, bilateral crackles on the chest, on X-ray bilateral opacities.
Which if them is most helpful in confirming diagnosis?
A.Tachycardia
B.Tachypnea
C.History
D.Gallop rhythm
Answer: D

2485. 17-year-old girl complained of anorexia nervosa was admitted for initiation of nutrition,
the blood samples revealed :
hypophosphatemia,
hypokalemia,
hypomagnesemia
What is the cause of the laboratory investigation?
A-Wrong protocol of nutrition.
B-Wrong test
C-Refeeding syndrome
D-Wrong kit in lab
Answer: C
2486. A ]age not recalled[ male presented to the emergency department with icterus and jaundice.
Serology showed:
Hepatitis A:
• Anti-HA V IgM — positive
• Anti-HA V IgG — positive
Hepatitis B:
• Anti-HBs (surface antibody) — positive
• HBsAg (surface antigen) — negative
• Anti-HBc (core antibody) — negative
• HBeAg (e antigen) — negative
What is the diagnosis?
A. Acute hepatitis A
B. Chronic hepatitis B
C. Acute hepatitis A with immunization against hepatitis B
D. Acute hepatitis A with previous hepatitis B infection
Answer: C
2487. Which of the following cerebral palsy types is associated with Kernicterus?
A. Spastic
B. Ataxic
C. Hypotonic
D. Dyskinetic

Answer: D
2488. A 26-year-old woman presents at 29 weeks of gestation with prelabor premature rupture of
membranes for 7 days. Examination revealed she is having lower abdominal pain, rigors, and
fever with purulent, foul-smelling vaginal discharge. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Chorioamnionitis
B. Urinary tract infection
C. Antepartum hemorrhage
D. Lower respiratory tract infection
Answer: Chorioamnionitis (GB)
2489. A 35-year-old woman presents to the clinic with a 5-month history of fatigue. She takes no medication. Her
examination is unremarkable (see lab results).
Tsh 14
Normal t 4
T.cholestrol 5.3
Ldl 2.7 ??
Tg slightly high
What is the most appropriate treatment for this patient's dyslipidemia?
A. Statin
B. Fibrate
C. Niacin
D. Thyroxine
Answer: D
2490. A 26-year-old pregnant woman visits the clinic for regular follow-up. She is asymptomatic. She is in her 30th
week of
pregnancy. Her physical examination reveals a mid-systolic ejection murmur at the right upper sternal border. The
murmur radiates to carotids. No diastolic murmur is heard. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Aortic stenosis
B. Mitral stenosis
C. Tricuspid stenosis
D. Physiologic murmur of pregnancy
Answer: A

2491. A 77-year-old man with poorly controlled hypertension presents with a 6-months history of fatigue and dyspnea
on exertion. He
denies edema, orthopnea, chest pain and palpitations. His only medication is hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg) once daily.
On
examination, he has a grade 2/6 midsystolic ejection murmur, which is loudest at the right upper steal border. An S4 is
heard at the
apex, there is no S3. His lungs are clear and there is no peripheral edema.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Aortic regurgitation
B. Mitral regurgitation
C. Aortic stenosis
D. Mitral stenosis
Answer: C
2492. A 55-year-old man presents to the clinic with progressive shortness of breath on exertion for 8 months. He has
no history of
chest pain or other systemic manifestations. Physical examination reveals an early diastolic murmur at the left upper
sternal border that is augmented when sitting forward (see reports).
Chest radiography: Cardiomegaly.
ECG: Left ventricular hypertrophy.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Aortic stenosis
B. Mitral stenosis
C. Aortic regurgitation
D. Mitral regurgitation
Answer: C
2493. A 33-year-old man presented with shortness of breath, orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea. Exanimation revealed collapsing pulse and wide pulse pressure. Early diastolic
murmur over left sternal border and pistol-shot sound heard over femoral arteries.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Coarctation of aorta
B. Aortic regurgitation
C. Cardiac tamponade
D. Ventricular septal defect
Answer: B

2494. A 66-year-old man presents with a diastolic murmur best heard at the left steal edge. On examination, the apex
beat is displaced outwards. Which
condition typically presents with these findings?
A. Coarctation of the aorta
B. Aortic regurgitation
C. Mitral regurgitation
D. Aortic stenosis
Answer: B
2495. 56-year-old man has a low-pitched diastolic rumble heard at the apex, a widened pulse
pressure and a grade 3/6 diastolic decrescendo murmur at the left steal border.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
B. Pulmonic insufficiency
C. Aortic regurgitation
D. Mitral stenosis
Answer: C
2496. Pregnant lady in last trimester with high blood pressure ( I forgot exactly) around 160/95 . She has headache
and
blurred vision and CTG show 170 , Her doctor said she should be admitted to decrease her blood pressure then
deliver her, but the she refuse the admission and asked to leave the hospital:
A. Forced Her to be admitted
B. Explain the risks to her, and if she insists on leaving, consider Dama
C. Let her go home
D. Forgot ( was not sense )
Answer: B
2497.A diabetic patient presents with an ulcer over the lateral border of the foot. Which type of diabetic foot ulcer is
most
likely?
A. Neuropathic ulcer
B. Ischemic ulcer
C. Venous ulcer
D. Pressure ulcer

Answer: A
2498. A diabetic patient presents with an ulcer with its granulated in its center over the left lateral border of the foot
(Not
mentioned in Scenario if ankle or leg)
left dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulse are intact.
Which type of diabetic foot ulcer is most likely?
A. Neuropathic ulcer
B. Ischemic ulcer
C. Venous ulcer
D. Pressure ulcer
Answer: A
2499. A 12 months baby presented by his parents for check up , found that he didn’t
receive any vaccines except at birth vaccine. Normal development. parents reported
that he has recurrent URTIs and because of that they delayed the vaccinations until
become healthy completely.
What is the next step in management?
A- Refer the parents to social worker
B- Do blood test and immune test for baby
C- Reassurance and catch up all vaccines
D- Told them that the delaying in vaccines is the cause of recurrent infxs
Answer: C
2500. 3 months or years old not vaccinated I think 4 vaccines I remember MMR and OPV what to do ?
A- reassuring and tell the parents it’s unnecessary
B-try to catch up missed vaccines
C-wait until starting school
D- Missing
Answer: B
2501.A 28-year-old man who recently joined military service and underwent excessive military training presents to the
Emergency Department with lightheadedness on standing and fatigue.
Physical examination reveals postural hypotension, otherwise unremarkable. Urine osmolality is elevated > 500
mosmol/L
(see lab results).

What is the most likely etiology for his acute kidney injury?
A. Pre-renal azotemia
B. Acute interstitial nephritis
C. Acute glomerulonephritis
D. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN)
Answer: A
2502.Patient 22 with symptoms of MS (pain on ocular movement and tingling sensation in upper limb) for 4 months,
he is now
asymptomatic . What is the INITIAL DIAGNOSTIC TEST?
A. CSF analysis
B. MRI spine and brain
C. CT brain
Answer: B
2503.Case of lung cancer. They said adenocarcinoma 2 cm in the apical region and no other lesion in any other place.
Brain MRI normal.
What’s the treatment?
A. Surgical resection
B. Chemotherapy
C. Radiotherapy
D. Observation
Answer: A
2504.Patient post inguinal surgery.
Incision site reveals erythema and seropurulent discharge.
What is the diagnosis?
A. Superficial surgical site infection
B. Deep surgical site infection
C. Cellulitis
Q: Patient day 5 after surgery, he has erythema and tenderness at the wound site with seropurulent discharge, dx?
Seroma
Superficial surgical site

Answer: Superficial surgical site
2505.Diabetic with polyurea and polydypsia and family hx of diabetes.
HbA1c 7. Something
FBG high (I think 9)
First-line management?
A. Metformin
B. Simagliptin
C. Gly……
Answer: A
2506. Patients pregnant asthmatic and didn’t have an attack for 6 months (implying controlled asthma). What is most
likely to be progressively increasing during pregnancy?
A. Respiratory rate
B.Tidal volume
C. Respiratory reserve capacity
Answer: B
2507.Pt female 20 something.
BP: 150/(80 something)
Medically free.
On examination: flank bruit.
Investigation to confirm her diagnosis:
A. Abdominal CT
B. Plain abdominal radiograph
C. Renal US
Answer: A
2508.Pediatric patient with history of trauma (or injury) presented with severe pain out of proportion to the visible area
and
crepitation.
Febrile.
Management?
A. Surgical consultant and IV antibiotics
B. Oral antibiotics

Answer: A
2509.Patient single, sexually active. She has a problem remembering taking daily medications. She wants
contraception that
provides privacy and long-term protection.
A. Etonogestrel implant
B. OCP
C. Diaphragm
D. Condom
Answer: A
2510. Patient with hyperkalemia of 6
Which drug do we stop?
A. Lisinopril
2511. Patient old age diabetic ( it was a very long scenario) the highlight of the scenario was that he was upon
admission conscious, alert and oriented, after a while he became confused ( they also imply that he has no cognitive
impairment)
He was also sick with either pneumonia or UTI ( I’m not sure I’m sorry but it’s similar to the question that says a patient
is sick with altered level of consciousness and then the answer would be that we initiate antibiotics, it was a similar
stem)
In the labs sodium was 132
What differentiates the patient’s condition from dementia?
A. Insidious onset congnitive impairment
B. Long term memory delay
C. Fluctuation of consciousness level
2512.
Answer: CTG

2513. Baby 6 months with UTI the parent were inquiring about the need for further investigation. What INITIAL
investigation
is required?
MCUG
Renal US
Answer: Renal US
2514. Endometriosis
Most definitive management?
A. Total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
B. Endometrial ablation
Answer: A
2515. Pregnant women G…P… 38 weeks of gestation presents with (Labour pain I think not so sure), breech
presentation,
1 cm dilated cervix , she has AFI of 3 (they implied oligohydraminous but didn’t say it ) . She requested ECV
Absolute contradiction for ECV?
A. Breech presentation
B. Oligohydramnios
C. Early Labor
Answer: B. Oligohydramnios
2516. 15 years old Turner ( 45 X ) they didn’t mention turner only the karyotype , she presented with no breast
development and
High FSH and LH and low estradiol . What do we give her?
A. Estrogen replacement therapy
B. Growth hormone only (they literally said only)
C. Observe until 16
Answer: A. Estrogen replacement therapy
2517. A 14-year-old girl presents with short stature, primary amenorrhea, and absent secondary sexual
characteristics. Her
karyotype is 45,X. What is the most appropriate treatment at this time?
A) Growth hormone
B) Oral contraceptive pills

C) Estrogen therapy
D) Gonadotropin replacement therapy
Answer: A
2518. 33 years old Patient with amenorrhea for 8 months
FSH 60 (high)
LH 60 (high)
Prolactin normal
TSH normal
What is she at increased risk of?
Osteoporosis
Endometrial cancer
Answer: Osteoporosis
2519. Parents of a patient known case of epilepsy, they were inquiring about what to do for a seizure that lasts more
than 5
minutes. What are they supposed to do until arrival of emergency care?
Ensure safe environment
Wait another 5 minutes
Rectal diazepam
Give oral valproate
2520. Dehydrated with very low BP 50 something
A. Mild dehydration
B. Moderate
C. Severe dehydration
D. Hypovolemic shock
Answer: D
2521. RTA there pelvic fracture no hematoma?
Pelvic ct.
retrograde urethrogram
2522. Pediatric treated as pneumonia receive antibiotics comback to er worse symptoms ?
Complicated pneumonia

Acute Respiratory Syndrome
2523. Anal fissure 6, o'clock management ?
Sphincterotomy
Topical cream
Answer: B
-Anal fissure 7, 3 ,management ?
Surgical Sphincterotomy
Tropical cream
2524. Hepatitis serology
Postitive HBsAg
Negative HBsAb
Positive HBcAb IgG
Negative HBcAb IgM
Positive HBeAg
What’s management?
Acyclovir
Immunoglobin
2525. Child positive meningitis contacted his brother and sister
Rifampin 2 Doses For 2 Days (Oral) [PREFERRED if Present With CORRECT Dose]
OR
Single Dose IM Ceftriaxone
OR
Single Dose Oral Ciprofloxacin
2526. Pregnant 30 w mild bleeding?
Steroid
Tocolytic
Antibiotic
Answer: A

2527. A 40 YO Male Who Had "A" Relative (Didn't Determine Degree Of Relative) Diagnosed With Colon Cancer At Age
Of 50
Is Concerned About Colon Cancer Screening
A. Start At 40 And Every 10 Years
B. Start At 50 And Every 10 Years
C. Start At 50 And Every 5 Years
D. Start At 60 And Every 10 Years
2528. A 7-year-old patient presents with abnormal jerky movements, sore throat, and fever. His brother and sister had
similar
symptoms with fever.
What is the most appropriate action?
A. Treat fever and reassure the parents
B. Administer intravenous ceftriaxone
C. Perform throat culture and start penicillin
D. Obtain brain imaging and lumbar puncture
2529. There was patient with clinical scenario of alzeheimer's prescribed donepezil but No Improvement Was Noticed
(Literally
Said No Improvement , Not Little , Not Incomplete) for 6 Months months. His MMSE Was 19 And Now Is 12. Asking
how
to adjust his meds:
A. Add Setraline
B. Add Memantine
C. Switch Donepezil To Memantine
D. Switch Donepezil To Rivastigmine
Answer: C. Switch Donepezil To Memantine
2530. Child came to ER before 12hours with fever and SOB, yesterday he had sore throat and dysphasia, on exam he
looks toxic

immobile in a chair opens his mouth with drooling of saliva , tachycardic tackypnic and fever 40
Oxygen sat 88%
What’s the next step?
A-Intubation in er
B-Transfer for picu
C-Admit to ward
D-Give nebuliser steroids
2531. Child with difficulty swallowing and congested throat, febrile, no cough, she is ill and sitting silently in her
mother's but
with her neck extended?
A. intubate in the OR
B. steroids
C. IV ceftriaxone
D. epinephrine
2532. 5-year-old child presents to the Emergency Room with severe sore throat, high-fever and increasing difficulty
breathing
over 8 hours. On examination, ill toxic looking child with drooling of saliva and sitting immobile with open mouth.
Blood
pressure 110/70 mmHg Heart rate 115 /min Respiratory rate 32 /min Temperature 38.8 °C. Oxygen saturation 95 %
Which of the following is the most appropriate immediate action should be taken?
A. Urgent referral to ENT for tonsillectomy
B. Complete sepsis work up, followed by antibiotics for 7 days
C. Send home on oral antibiotics for 7 days and referral to ENT
D. Urgent admission to ICU for intubation then sepsis work to follow
Answer: D

2533. Female presented to clinic complaining of infertility for 4 years
Normal labs
Pic shows Bilateral tube blockage
What is the most likely diagnosis according to Xray Pic?
A. Hydrosalpinx
B. Ovarian Cyst
C. Adhesions
Answer: A. Hydrosalpinx
2534. Elderly Presents To The Emergency Department with bright blood with his stool he known for colonic polyp and
hypertension
On Ex he is pale and tachycardic
Vitals : BP 160/90
HR : 128
What is the most appropriate initial ?
A- urgent colonoscopy
B- Ct abdomen
C- oral iron ( yes I am sure)
D- IV fluid and blood

Answer: D
2535. A patient with recent rectal surgery comes to you with absent pulses up to the femoral area. How will you
manage such a
case?
a. Unfractionated heparin
b. Enoxaparin
c. IVC filter
d. Thrombolysis
Answer: B
2536. A17-year-old man is evaluated in the Emergency Department for polyuria, polydipsia, polyphagia and an
unintentional weight loss over the past month. He has abdominal pain and drowsiness for the last 21 hours. Hsi
medical and family history are unremarkable. He is not of any medications. On physical examination, he looks
sick with dry mucous membrane, tachypnea, and tachycardia with clear chest auscultation. Abdominal
examination shows diffuse mild tenderness with normal bowel sounds. Intravenous 0.9% saline is initiated. An
electrocardiogram shows sinus tachycardia 120/min. Chest radiograph si normal (see lab results). Blood
pressure 95/53 mmHg. Heart rate 119 /min Respiratory rate 20 /min Temperature 37.2 C°Oxygen saturation 95 %
BMI 19 kg/m2 Sodium 130 134-146 mmol/L Potassium 4.4 3.5-5.1 mmol/L Chloride 96 97-108 mmol/L Bicarbonate
10 21-28 mmol/L Blood urea nitrogen 15 2.8 to 8.9 mmol/L Creatinine 115 44-115 mol/L Random Glucose 25 3.9-5.5
mmol/L. ABG HCO3-10 22-28 mmol/L рН 7.10 7.36-7.45. RBC 5 4.7-6.1 x 1012/L (Male) 4.2-5.4 x1012/L (Female) Hb
130 130-170 gL/ (Male) 120-160 g/L (Female) WBC 144.5-10.5×109/L. Which of the following is the most
appropriate next step in the management?
A. Administer intravenous ceftriaxone
B. Initiate intravenous insulin therapy
C. Administer intravenous potassium chloride
D. Administer intravenous sodium bicarbonate
Answer: B (MG)
Q: A patient presents with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Laboratory results show: Parameter Value
Blood glucose: 380 mg/dl
pH 7.15
Bicarbonate 15 mEq/L.
What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. Intravenous bicarbonate

B. Subcutaneous insulin
C. IV fluids and regular insulin
Answer: C
Q: 10-year-old child presented to the ER with nausea, vomiting, and deep breathing.
Laboratory results:
• Random blood glucose: 380 mg/dL
• ABG:
• pH = 7.0
• HCO₃⁻ = 10 mmol/L
What is the most appropriate initial management?
A. IV sodium bicarbonate
B. IV fluids and insulin infusion
C. Subcutaneous insulin and hydration
D. Increase bicarbonate to avoid ketosis
Answer: B. IV fluids and insulin infusion
Q: A previously healthy 11-year-old child presents to the emergency department with a 2- day history of vomiting and
diarrhea. His mother reports decreased oral intake and increasing lethargy over the past 12 hours. On examination, he
is
drowsy but arousable, and his breath has a fruity (nail polish-like) odor. Vital signs reveal mild hypotension. Laboratory
results show:
Random blood sugar (RBS): 8.9 mmol/L
Serum sodium: 131 mmol/L
Bicarbonate: 15 mmol/L
What is the most likely cause of his current condition?
A. Diabetic Ketoacidosis
B. Uncontrolled Hyperglycemia
C. Hyponatremia
D. Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State
Answer: A. Diabetic Ketoacidosis
2537. A patient was brought to the Emergency Department following a road traffic accident. During the initial
assessment, the
doctor inquired about the airway, to which the nurse responded that it was patent with signs of obstruction. The doctor

then inquired about breathing, and the nurse reassured that it was okay. The doctor proceeded to ask about circulation,
and the nurse responded once again. What type of communication is demonstrated in this scenario between the doctor
and
nurse?
A) Check back
B) Situation, background, assessment, and recommendation (all in one answer)
C) Close loop communication
D) Call out
Answer: D
2538. A 50-year-old man is complaining of pain affecting the wrist joints bilaterally, second and
third proximal interphalangeal joints, and right knee joint for the last 4 months. His examination
revealed active arthritis at both wrists and second and third proximal interphalangeal joints (see
lab results).
Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Methotrexate
B. Methotrexate and sulfasalazine
C. Methotrexate and hydroxychloroquine
D. Methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine, and prednisone
Answer: D (GB)
2539. A 19-year-old G1 P0 at 42 weeks is admitted for induction of labor. Her antenatal care
was uncomplicated. Examination revealed the cervix was closed and long. Prostaglandin E2 is
placed vaginally. An hour later, she started to contract regularly, and the fetal heart dropped to
70 bpm and was not recovering. Her vaginal examination showed a fully dilated cervix and
presenting part at +2.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
A. Consider oxytocin
B. Pressure the patient
C. Take her for caesarean section
D. Start pushing and consider applying ventouse
Answer: D (GB)
2540. 5 months old child admitted to hospital many times with pneumonia. Came now with cough and monophasic
bilateral

expiratory wheezing . What is the diagnosis test?
A. Chest x ray
B. CBC and blood culture
C. Spirometry
D. Flexible Bronchoscopy
Answer: D. Flexible Bronchoscopy
2541. A 30-year-old woman with primary infertility for the last 3 years is seen for follow-up in the clinic.
Her investigations included a hormonal profile, and an ultrasound is normal. Her husband's semen
analysis is also normal. She had a 3-month trial of induction of ovulation with clomiphene.
Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. In-vitro fertilization
B. Diagnostic laparoscopy
C. Intrauterine insemination
D. Induction of ovulation with gonadotropins
Answer: B (Gameboy)
2542. A 70-year-old gentleman known to have liver cirrhosis with esophageal varices underwent endoscopic variceal
ligation 1 month ago.
Which of the following is the best long-term intervention to decrease the risk of recurrent variceal bleeding?
A. B blocker
B. H2 blocker
C. Proton pump inhibitor
D. No further intervention
Answer: A (GB)
2543. they developed a new medication and wants the best study type i guess
Randomized clinical trial
cohort
Cross sectional
Case control
Answer: Randomized clinical trial

2544. A diabetic male patient presented with an ulcer on the toes of the foot failed to heal. On examination: absent
dorsalis pedis
pulse. How would you manage the patient? (More details in the Q but I forget them) (100% sure of the choices)
A) Hyperbaric oxygen therapy
B) Metatarsophalangeal amputation
C) Stenting
D) Vacuum closure
Answer: C
2545. Dm with wound delayed closure 10 cm of plopen wound with granulation tissue seen
Management?
A. Dressing
B. Antibiotics cream or something like this
C. Vacuum closure
Answer: C
Q: 59 YO male post colostomy came after 10 days, during examination the wound is 10 cm, clean with healthy
granulation
tissue, without oozing pus or any discharge
What is the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Simple dressing
B. Vacuum-assisted wound dressing
C. Antibiotic
D. Primary closure (or Suturing)
2546. Pt had testicular torsion and resolved what to do
A. Bilaterl orchopexy
B. Unilateral orchopexy
C. Repeat doppler us
Answer: A
2547. A 30-year-old woman with known sickle cell trait attends an antenatal booking clinic at 8 weeks' gestation.
Which of the following antenatal complications is significantly more common in her case?
A. Chest infection
B. Placental abruption

C. Urinary tract infection
D. Intrauterine growth restriction
Answer: C (GB)
2548. A 16-year-old male presents with right lower quadrant pain ,it is a clear case of appendicitis, and the diagnosis
was
mentioned
He is scheduled for a laparoscopic appendectomy. How should antibiotics be administered?
A. preoperative dose, then stop immediately after
B. Preoperative dose and continue for three days
C. Preoperative dose and continue for four days
D. Preoperative dose and continue for five days
Answer: A
2549. A 26-year-old man complains of pelvic pain after a motorcycle collision. Physical and radiologic examinations
confirm a
pelvic fracture. Urologic workup reveals a normal urethrogram and extraperitoneal bladder injury.
Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment for his bladder injury?
a. Immediate surgical exploration and repair.
b. Placement of a permanent suprapubic tube
c. Catheter drainage followed by definitive repair after 2 weeks
d, Catheter drainage for 2 weeks followed by repeat imaging
e. Bilateral nephrostomy tubes
Answer: D (confirmed)
2550. A 29-year-old woman presents to the clinic with a history of irregular menstrual cycles for the last 2 years. Her
last delivery
5 years ago. Currently, she is not on any contraception. Examination shows all within normal limits except breast
examination revealed frank galactorrhea.
Which of the following is most helpful investigation?
A. Beta-human chorionic gonadotropin
B. Ultrasound of the breast
C. Serum prolactin
D. Thyroid function
Answer: C (MG)

2551. A Young male baby came to well-baby clinic, upon examination his right testis was palpable in the inguinal canal
and small
in size and easily moved to scrotum, the left is normal,
what is the cause?
A- Ectopic testis
B- Undescended testis
C- Testicular torsion
D- Retractile testis
Answer: D
2552. A 30-year-old G3 P0020 at 17 weeks gestation is undergoing serial ultrasound
assessments of cervical length due to a history of a previous second-trimester abortion.
Which of the following features will indicate cervical cerclage before 24 weeks gestation?
A. Cervical length less than 5 mm
B. Cervical length less than 25 mm
C. Cervical length less than 35 mm
D. Funneling of the internal os
Answer: B (GB)
2553. A 12-year-old girl has typical symptoms of migraine- And she was diagnosed in the stem by migraine -
She was treated with first-line therapy but has had no improvement, and symptoms have persisted for 3 weeks.
What is the most appropriate second-line treatment?
A. Ibuprofen
B. TCA
C. Benzodiazepine
Answer: B
2554.mother brought her 4 years old child because he frequently wakes up in the middle of the
night setting on the bed, eyes opened but unresponsive for 2-3 min then he go back to sleep,
in the morning, he doesn't remember what happened?
A. nightmares
B. night terror
C. night walking
D. Epilepsy
Answer: B

2555. A patient presents with palpitations. He denies dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or lower
limb edema.
ECG shows atrial fibrillation. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial treatment?
A. Propanalol
B. Digoxin
C. Furosemide
D. Dobutamine
Answer: A
2556. Around 17 years with history of Seizure On 400 carbamazabin BID but still has seizure attack
What next to mange him
A.Increase dose of carbamazabin to 600 BID
B. Replace carbamazabin with VA
C. Add lamotrigin
D. Add VA
Answer: A
2557. A elderly patient (not sure about the exact age), a known case of heart failure (they stated it in the question)
presented to the
emergency department with palpitations. He denies dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,
or lower limb edema. ECG shows atrial fibrillation. Which of the following is the most appropriate
initial treatment?
A. Propranolol
B. Digoxin
C. Furosemide
D. Dobutamine
Answer: B
2558. Heart Failure With A-Fib, Complain Of Palpitation, Mx?
A. Carvedilol
B. Diltazem
C. Digoxin
Answer: A

2559. A 22-year-old man presents to the emergency department with pain and tenderness over the lateral aspect of
his left thigh.
On examination, there are linear erythematous streaks extending along the leg. The area is warm and tender.
He has no significant past medical history.
What is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Penicillin
B. Cloxacillin
C. Tetracycline
D. Erythromycine
Answer: B
2560. patient presents to the emergency department with vomiting and diarrhea shortly after ingesting an
overdose of tablets. A few hours later; the patient develops melena, hematemesis, and shortness of breath.
Laboratory investigations reveal elevated liver enzymes. Which of the following is the most likely substance
ingested?
A. Ferrous sulfate
B. Paracetamol
C. Ibuprofen
D. Aspirin
Answer: A. Ferrous sulfate
2561.
2562. A woman complains of irregular menses with facial hair (hirsutism) but no signs of virilism. She was already
counseled on
lifestyle modification.
What is the early something promotion (sure about "early" and "promotion" — unsure if the middle word was "health")
and preventive measure for the underlying pathology (it was not "initial" and not "most appropriate" — this is the exact
stem wording)?
A. Refer to endocrinology for adrenal mass
B. Cosmetic treatment and reassure the patient

C. Screen for PCOS with testosterone and pelvic ultrasound
D. Start hormone therapy without further testing
Answer: D. Start hormone therapy without further testing
2563. Patient complains of heart burn on pantoprazole (dose was not mention), he is not improving, what the next step
in
management?
A. upper endoscope
B. increase the dose of pantoprazole
C. investigate H.pylori
2564. A 50yrs old women come to the [primary health care clinic| with |[SEVERE|| epigastric pain and GERD symptoms
not
improving with acid-lowering medication for the past 6 months The patient requests referral to a specialist.
What do you do: (((Yes I am sure acid-lowering and not anti-acid))))
A- increase the dose of acid-lowering medication
B- order preliminary h.pylori test
C- refer to gastroenterologist for upper endoscopy
D- lifestyle modification
2565. A 28-year-old man is brought to Emergency Room with head injury after motor vehicle accident, he is making
incomprehensive sounds, open his eyes to painful stimuli and flexes his limbs to painful stimuli, and his pupils react
sluggishly to light.
What is his Glasgow Coma Score?
A. 5
B. 6
C. 7
D. 8
Answer C. 7 (MG)
2566. A 24-year-old male complaining of a tender mass and redness in the perianal area. He has a history of recurrent
presentations that end with spontaneous drainage. Abdominal examination is normal. Perianal examination shows
one fistula with redness and a fluctuant mass. What is the most appropriate next step in management?
The Options:
A. CT pelvis
B. Oral antibiotics with outpatient follow-up

C. Bedside needle aspiration
D. Examination under general anesthesia (EUA)
2567. 20 wks pregnant presented for ANC what is the critical vaccine to avoid:
A. varicella
B. Tdap
C. influenza
D. MMR
2568. A 43-year-old female, medically free, presents to the clinic after experiencing a single episode of
maroon-colored stool. She
reports a history of three previous episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding from an unknown location. On examination,
she is
vitally stable with no abdominal symptoms and no other associated complaints.
A. Abdominal X-ray
B. Barium Study
C. Upper GI Endoscopy
D. Lower GI Endoscopy
Answer: D
2569.
2570.

2571.
2572. 20 yr old female with fever & suprapubic pain & tenderness Temp 38.8. Urinalysis was +ve for leukocytes &
nitrites. Most
appropriate next step?
A. Start empiric abx
B. Take urine culture & start empiric abx
2573.
2574.
Answer: C

2575. A 40-year-old woman has just delivered her 7th child at 38 weeks with 4 kg baby boy vaginally 10 minutes ago.
The placenta is still in place and she starts to bleed profusely. The estimated amount of blood loss visually is around
800 ml.
Which of the following best describes this case?
A. Secondary post-partum hemorrhage
B. latrogenic post-partum hemorrhage
C. Primary post-partum hemorrhage
D. Tertiary post-partum hemorrhage
Answer: C. Primary post-partum hemorrhage (MG)
2576. A 5-year-old child with asthma is brought by his mother. She is worried about his asthma in adulthood. Which of
the
following best describes the prognosis?
A. Childhood asthma is unrelated to adult asthma.
B. Childhood asthma will disappear in adulthood.
C. Childhood asthma will become worse in adulthood.
D. Childhood asthma will persist into adulthood.
Answer: B
2577.A junior doctor started working at a private hospital and noticed that a senior consultant was prescribing
unnecessary
medications to patients. He investigated the matter and found out that it was being done for financial gain. He filed a
complaint with the hospital administration, but the hospital dismissed the issue and gave him a warning. Most
appropriate
action
A. Stay silent and avoid conflict
B. Talk to the senior consultant and ask him to stop
C. Assume that the hospital will take action
D. Escalate the issue to a higher authority (Not written exactly like this but the same idea)
ANSWER: D

2578.36- You are a junior consultant and saw a senior consultant been prescribing medications for
patients which they do not need and he change their medical record to justify his orders. You
informed the hospital administration and they dismissed the issue. What should you do?
A- Remain silent
B- Talk to the consultant directly
C-assume the hospital administration will do something about it
D- report to the medical regulatory
ANSWER : D
2579. Woman with typical chronic cholecystitis sys (pain increased following fatty meals, radiating to lt shoulder), GB
US shows
2cm polyp
A. Lithotripsy
B. Observation
C. CT
D. Cholecystectomy
ANSWER : D
2580. Patient presented to the outpatient clinic after first tonic-clonic seizures
What’s the initial (kinda sure )investigation:
A. MRI
B. Electrolytes and metabolic pannel
C. EEG
D. LP
Answer: B
2581. 11 years old girl with multiple joints affection, malar rash, photosensitivity
Positive ANA & Anti DNAse + low C3 started on prednisone
Which of the following is the most frequently utilized other agent to maintain remission and prevent vascular
complications (exactly written like this)
A. HCQ
B. NSAIDS
C. cyclophosphamide
D. Cyclosporine
Answer: A
2582. 10 days old neonate presented with RD and lethargy, on examination: absent femoral pulse (no vitals

mentioned)
What of the following is the most appropriate initial management
A. surgical repair
B. ventricular septoplasty
C. balloon dilatation
D. PG infusion
Answer: D
2583. An 8-year-old child presents with recurrent episodes of cellulitis following minor abrasions sustained during
school activities. His mother is concerned about how to prevent future episodes. What is the most appropriate
preventive measure?
A. Limit contact sports
B. Wear long-sleeved clothing
C. Prophylactic antibiotics
D. Clean wounds and cover abrasions with a bandage
Answer: D
2584. hild maybe around 10 years presented with chest pain and forceful palpitations
hypotensive 95/65
Tachycardia ~ 243
Most appropriate next step
A. 12 leads ECG
B. Echo
C. I don’t remember C and D but i think were irrelevant
Answer: A
2585. A 14-year-old girl presents with primary amenorrhea and recurrent cyclic lower abdominal pain. On
examination, a bluish/purplish bulging membrane is seen at the vaginal opening. What is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Imperforate hymen
B. Primary amenorrhea
Answer: A

2586. An infant presents with projectile vomiting, dehydration, and failure to thrive. Which of the following acid–base
abnormalities is most likely?
A. Hypokalemic metabolic acidosis
B. Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis
C. Hypochloremic, hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis
D. Hyperchloremic metabolic alkalosis
Answer: C
2587. 50 year old man has dyspnea and weight loss
In cxr there is pleural effusion
It was exudative and heigh interferon gamma:
A. Methoselioma
B. Tb
Answer: B
2588. Some months baby with bowing of the (legs ) which vitamin deficiency
A. D
B. A
C. C
D. B1
Answer: A
2589. elderly with end stage cancer c/o severe pain. The family asked the physician to give a stronger analgesic or to
increase the dose. The doctor explains that while it might help alleviate the pain, it also might hasten their
father’s death. Which of the following is this referred to?
A. Principle of subsidiarity
B. Principle of double effects
C. Principle of totality
D. Principle of informed choice
Answer: B
2590.

2591. 7 years old boy fully vaccinated presented to Er with small (2x1 i think) clean wound after fall while playing,
emergency care is provided what do to regarding tetanus?
A. Reassurance
B. Give booster
C. vaccine + booster
D. Vaccine
ANSWER: A
2592. A 3-year-old child presents to the screening clinic (see image), Which of the following is the most likely
diagnosis?
A. Trisomy 21 syndrome
B. Trisomy 18 syndrome
C. Trisomy 13 syndrome
D. Normal ethnic features
Answer: A. Trisomy 21 syndrome (MG)
2593. Asymptomatic pregnant asked for urine culture for some job reason,
What is the best time to get urine culture for asymptomatic bacteriuria?
A. 12 weeks
B. 20 weeks
C. 26 weeks
D. 32 weeks
Answer: A
2594. A 15-year-old boy is brought to the physician by his parents due to a one-week history of fatigue, visible
jaundice,
and TREMOR in his hands. His parents note that his speech has recently DYSARTHRK Physical examination is
notable for scleral icterus and a distinct greenish discoloration encircling the CORNEOSCLERAL junction
Laboratory studies are obtained and reveal the following:
Direct bilirubin: 1
8 mol Indirect bilirubin:

20 mol (Normal: 1–6 mol) normal < 18 mol
AST 1000+
ALT 1000+
Which of the following is most likely to be found in this patient's further diagnostic workup?
A) JAK2 gene mutation
B) Low serum ceruloplasmin
C) Centrilobular necrosis on liver biopsy
D) Positive anti-smooth muscle antibodies (anti-SMA)
Answer: B
2595. Prospective cohort study is being done to assess obesity in pediatric patients, many baseline variables being
collected
including diet, lifestyle, ………… (many thing)
The primary outcome variable was obesity defined as greater the 95%, what is the most appropriate test to be used?
A. T test
B. Linear regression
C. Logistic regression
D. Multi varite analysis of variant
Answer: C
2596. Young man with appendicitis was treated conservatively with antibiotics. He now presents with an appendicular
mass but no
collection. How should this case be managed?
A. Interval laparoscopic appendectomy after 12 weeks
B. Interval open appendectomy after 12 weeks
C. No further intervention needed
D. Colonoscopy after 6 weeks
Answer: D
2597. 11-Boy 4 yo with contact with chikenpox case in the daycare 2 days ago what to do ? He is now asymptomatic
A. Acyclovir
B. Give vaccine
C. Give ig
D. Wait and observe

Answer: B
2598. Diabetic girl with BМІ 35
https://t.me/Alhomrani525 21-23July
A. 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous intensity exercise spread over ≥ 3 days per week
B. Harvey exercise every day
C. Diet because of her joint
D. Bariatric surgery and then see what to exercise
Answer: D
2599.30 years female with a family history of DM2 came for advise BМІ 35
A. 150 min moderate exercise weekly
B. intense exercise everyday
C. surgery then diet
Answer: A
2600. Case of incomplete abortion, some tissue still in the uterus by (TVUS), how to manage?
A. IM misoprostol
B. Oxytocin
C. Evacuation of uterine cavity
Answer: C
2601. Child came from Africa (Region Not Specified, Just Africa) with his family, complaining of cyclic fever, fatigue
and
sweating, the diagnosis is confirmed by blood film (Diagnosis Not Mentioned, Just "Diagnosis Confirmed") what is the
management?
A. metronidazole
B- ceftrixone
C. chloroquine
D- doxycycline
Answer: C
2602. Kid with chills and fever just returned from Africa. Blood culture confirms the diagnosis (diagnosis not stated).
Which

of the following is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Chloroquine
B. Metronidazole
C. Ceftriaxone
D. Acyclovir
(This was the stem, short without many details)
Answer: A
2603. 30 year old women with bronchial asthma came for routine check up, despite adherence to inhalaled
corticosteroid complains of intermittent wheezing and coughing and at night, her husband smokes around
her,Normal vitals, Most appropriate action?
A. Add leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAS)
B. Add Long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABAs)
C. increase the dose of inhaled steroid
D. Implementing smoking cessation for the people in the house
Answer: D
2604. A 32-year-old woman presents to the clinic with a 6-month history of mild fatigue. She
does not have other symptoms. She is planning for pregnancy. Her physical examination is
unremarkable. Her recent thyroid function is shown below.
Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Avoid pregnancy
B. Start Thyroxin immediately
C. Start Thyroxin during pregnancy
D. Proceed with pregnancy without any interventions
Answer: C
2605. A man, previously divorced, has been diagnosed with familial adenomatous
polyposis (FAP).He refuses to inform his current wife and children about his diagnosis or
the need for screening, stating that he will complain if his wife finds out. What is the
most appropriate next step?
A. Respect patient confidentiality
B. Let the social worker notify the mother
C. Tell the wife because children should get screening tests
D. Ask Ethics committee

Answer: C
2606. A 3-year-old child presents with clinical signs of intestinal obstruction. Physical examination reveals a
sausage-shaped mass in the right abdomen. The child is irritable, exhibits episodic crying with leg flexion, and may
have red currant jelly stools.
What is the definitive in management?
A. Enema
B. Surgery
C. Endoscopy
D. IV antibiotics only
Answer: A
2607.
Answer: A
2608. Pedia with burning micturition from one week what to give? (Examinee: No fever)
A. Amoxicillin
B. Cephalexin

C. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole
Answer: B
2609. A 3-year-old girl is brought to the Emergency Department with fever and dark urine. Her parents
state that she had been constipated. On examination, she looks unwell and irritable with abdominal
tenderness, but no palpable liver or spleen (see lab results).
Blood pressure 125/86 mmHg
Heart rate 125 /min
Respiratory rate 29/min Temperature 39.9° С
Hb 81 112-160 g/L
Platelets count 325 150-400 x 109/L Urinalysis
Test Result Normal Values
Leukocytes 16 0-3 per high power field
Erythrocytes 18 0-2 per high power field
Protein ++ Absent
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Hypertensive nephropathy
B. Acute glomerulonephritis
C. Acute pyelonephritis
D. Acute cystitis
Answer: C
2610. A 6-Year-Old Girl With Recurring UTI Complaining Of Fever, Dysuria, And Vomiting. The Mother Says She Had 3
Previous Similar Episodes.
What Investigation Would You Do?
A. Renal US
B. MCUG
C. Renal US + MCUG (PRESENT TOGATHER IN ONE OPTION)
Answer: A
2611. Patient of stab wound measuring 2 cm penetrating injury with minimal bleeding and partially omentum exposed
patient is vitally stable, CT report negative findings, Next step in management?
A. Observation
B. Close the wound
C. Leave the wound open

D. Laparotomy
Answer: B
2612.
Answer: D. Serum intact parathyroid hormone
2613.
Answer: B. Tailor prescription to the individual
2614. A 62-year-old diabetic woman was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with
pneumonia and sepsis (see lab results and report).
Chest X-ray: Right lobe consolidation and pleural effusion.
Which of the following most likely indicates a poor prognosis?
A. Age
B. Diabetes mellitus
C. High white blood cell count
D. Pleural effusion on chest X-ray
Answer: B. Diabetes mellitus (GB)

2615. pt with COPD came with fever and yellow sputum (signs of chest infection)
PH : low
Pco2 : very high
O2: very low
I Don’t remember the numbers
Diagnosis?
A- COPD exacerbation with acute respiratory failure type 1
B- COPD exacerbation with acute respiratory failure type 2
C- COPD exacerbation with mixed respiratory failure
Answer: B
2616. patient post MVA with abdominal pain
E-FAST: +ve fluid in splenic area
Bp: 99/70
Pulse: between 102-107
(Sure about the numbers)
Next step?
A- CT
B- laparotomy
C- MRI
Answer: A- CT
2617. 30s female with chronic pelvic pain and urinary urgency relieved by voiding they did diagnostic laparoscopy to
rule out
endometriosis, which was normal.
Ask for next step?
A. Diagnostic hysteroscopy
B. Referral urology
C. Antidepressants
2618. A 3-month-old boy is brought to the emergency department by his mother due to poor feeding and fast
breathing. The
mother reports that he easily "tires out" and sweats heavily across his forehead during breastfeeding, causing poor
weight
gain. He was born at full term with no complications and has normal facial features. On physical examination, he is

tachypneic and a harsh holosystolic murmur is heard at the left lower sternal border. His liver is palpated 3 cm below
the
right costal margin. Which of the following is the most likely cause of his symptoms?
A. Ventricular septal defect (VSD)
B. Atrial septal defect (ASD)
C. Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
D. Coarctation of the aorta
Answer: A. Ventricular septal defect (VSD)
2619. A patient presents with social withdrawal, abnormal behavior, auditory hallucinations, and behavioral changes.
Which of
the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Generalized anxiety disorder
B. Major depressive disorder
C. Bipolar disorder with psychotic features
D. Schizophrenia / schizophrenia-spectrum psychotic disorder
Answer: D. Schizophrenia / schizophrenia-spectrum psychotic disorder
2620. A 30-week pregnant woman is diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy. Her left ventricular ejection fraction
(LVEF) is
35%. Which of the following medications is the most appropriate treatment?
A. Losartan
B. Enalapril
C. Methyldopa
D. Hydralazine
Answer: D. Hydralazine
2621. A woman planning to become pregnant has mild fatigue. TSH is 7 with normal T3/T4. What is the appropriate
management?
A. Start levothyroxine
B. Do not start treatment
C. Start levothyroxine when she becomes pregnant
2622. 63 year old man with poorly controlled hypertension, when with sitting with family became unresponsive, only
moves eyes
vertically and does not move limbs (bilaterally). Where is the lesion

Pons
Medulla
Mid brain
Left cerebral cortex
Answer: Pons
2623. A patient with sickle cell disease presents with acute chest syndrome. While receiving a
blood transfusion, he suddenly develops fever and chills. What is the most appropriate immediate action?
A. Hydroxyurea
B. Stop transfusion immediately
C. Hydration
D. ABC (Airway, Breathing, Circulation)
Answer: B. Stop transfusion immediately
2624. A 24-Hour-Old Neonate With Ambiguous Genitalia. 17-Hydroxyprogesterone Was
Abnormally High (See Lab Results):
Test Result - Normal Values
Sodium 127 134-146 mmol/L
Potassium 6.8 3.5-5.1 mmol/L
Bicarbonate 15 21-28 mmol/L
Glucose 2.5 2.8-5 mmol/L (Newborn), 3.3-5.5 mmol/L (Child)
Which Of The Following Is The Inheritance Of This Disease?
A. Multifactorial
B. X-linked recessive
C. Autosomal dominant
D. Autosomal recessive
Answer: D. Autosomal recessive (MG)
2625. 20 year old , medically free presented with epigastric tenderness for 1 month not related to any thing,associated
sometimes
with heartburn and vomiting. + history of mother having non specific abdominal pain
Patient had + blood and mucous in stool asking what to give
A. omeprazole
B. Tetracycline
C. Nonallergic diet ( not relevant much)

Answer: A
2626. Patient with hx of depression now present with talkativeness decreased sleeping & overspending on
examination has
tachycardia & dilated pupils whats Dx?
A. Bipolar 1
B. Substance induced mood disorder
Answer: B
2627.
Answer: C
2628. A woman has a 3 x 3 cm axillary mass for the past 3 months. On examination, the node is mobile and has not
changed in
size. What is the next step?
A. Lymph-node core needle biopsy
B. Mammogram
C. Observation
D. Breast biopsy
Answer: B
2629.
Answer: C
2630. Young women mood changes irritability and something like social with drawal
Turned to using mariguana alcohol to cope , everything else was normal except upon examination slurred dysarthric
speech
A. Liver function test

B. Urine drug test
C. Tsh
Answer: B
2631. An 18-year-old patient came with reduced level of consciousness and began to seize. While in the ambulance,
he was in
deep sleep and regained consciousness in the ER. He has HIV with questionable treatment adherence and drinks
alcohol
heavily. On examination, there is tooth clenching and a temperature of 37.9°C.
What is the next step in management?
A. LP
B. Urine toxicology screen
C. CT
Answer: C
2632. Pt male with sob and cough for a duration of time was taking Lisinopril warfarin 3 mg and hydrochlorothiazide
and 4 th
medication I forgot other medication doses but he was found to have positive acid fast bacili and started 4 anti tb
medications
Which medication to be adjusted
A. Lisinopril
B. Warfarin
C. Hydrochlorothiazide
D. Amlodipine
Answer: B
2633. Pt male with sob and cough for a duration of time was taking Lisinopril warfarin 3 mg and hydrochlorothiazide
and 4 th
medication I forgot other medication doses but he was found to have positive acid fast bacili and started 4 anti tb
medications
Which medication to be adjusted
A. Lisinopril
B. .................
C. Hydrochlorothiazide
D. Amlodipine
NO WARFARIN
Answer: D

2634. Patient presents with shortness of breath and productive cough, he is on lisinopril, hydrochlorothiazide,
amlodipine,
warfarin, acid fast bacilli was positive, anti-TB 4 medications was initiated.
What drug should be adjusted?
A- Warfarin
B- Lisinopril
C- Hydrochlorothiazide
D- Amlodipine
Answer: A
2635. Elderly Male On Amlodipine, Beta Blocker, And Lisinopril Presents With Flu-Like Symptoms. Acid-Fast Bacilli
Result Came Positive, And He Was Started On First-Line Anti-TB Regimen. Which Antihypertensive Drug Should Be
Adjusted?
A. Amlodipine
B. Beta Blocker
C. Lisinopril
D. Forget
Answer: A
2636. A 43-year-old man presented to the hospital with right leg swelling and pain. He has a history of pulmonary
embolism 5
years ago and is currently not taking any medications. Doppler ultrasound confirmed the diagnosis of proximal Deep
Vein
Thrombosis (DVT). Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
A. Aspirin
B. Thrombolysis
C. Long-term anticoagulation
D. Anticoagulation for 2 months
Answer: C
2637. A 30-year-old woman G2 P2002 at 32 weeks' gestation presents to Emergency Department complaining of
lower abdominal and back pain which has increased in frequency and intensity over the last few hours.
Abdominal examination shows fundal height equals to 32 cm, longitudinal lie fetus and cephalic
presentation. Fetal heart was positive and cardiotocography is reactive with 2-3 uterine contractions/10
minutes. Vaginal examination shows 1 cm dilated cervix, 70% effacement, -3 station and cephalic.
Which of the following is the next step to
A. Continuous cardiotocography

confirm the diagnosis?
B. Lecithin-sphingomyelin ratio
C. Repeat vaginal assessment in two hour-time
D. Cervical length assessment by ultrasound scanning
Answer: C
2638.A 30-year-old G3 P1010 woman presented at 24 weeks of gestation with preterm labor. She gave a history
of preterm delivery at 34 weeks in her first pregnancy. Which of the following is the best method to
evaluate her risk of preterm labor?
A. Fetal fibronectin
B. Uterine contractions
C. Serial pelvic examination
D. Cervical length measurement
Answer: D
2639. Pt with known malignancy came with urine retention I think weakness and and sensory loss at t 10
A. Schedule outpatient imaging
B. Give dexamethasone
C. Something about reassiing after 24 h
D. Rest of options were def wrong
Answer: B
2640. Pt with perineal swelling with crepitus and foul smelling discharge, from scrotum to perineal area , what's
diagnosis
A. Fournier gangrene
B. Scrotal abcess
Answer: A
2641.8 yrs old referred due to moderate failure to thrive in divorce parent, lives w mother who has social and financial
issues
and she's on antidepressants works 6 days a week
What's the most appropriate next step in management?
A. Reassurance
B. Increase caloric intake

C. TPN
D. Multidisciplinary team
Answer: D
2642.51 years old male present to ER with vomiting blood , previous history of two Gastrointestinal bleeding of
unknown site.
Which of the following is the most appropriate initial step?
A- Endoscopy
B- Sengstaken tube
C- Laparotomy
D- Barium radiology
Answer: A
2643.Patient RTA have obvious pelvic fracture, he also has scrotal hematoma and blood at the meatus
A. Foley catheter
B. CT of PELVIS
C. RUG
D. ^ both were present
Answer: C
2644.Patient on apixaban and fell, normal PLT and INR, CT: brain hemorrhage (forgot which type exactly sorry)
A. What to give?
B. PCC and factor X
C. Recombinant factor VIII
D. Fresh frozen plasma and vitamin k
Answer: B
2645.40 something y o male came complaining of easy bleeding, he has gum bleeding and skin rash, labs: Hg 12.5 ,
PLT: 5 ,
WBC: 7.6 (100% sure of the labs) no shistocytes in blood film
What is the cause?
A. ITP

B. Aplastic anemia
Answer: A
2646.Patient with wood stick injury question mentioned it involves the sclera and the eye was bleeding and patient
was unable to
move his eye and in severe pain. On examination, he has Teardrop pupil and Cloudy anterior chamber
What is the type of injury?
(It Was Metallic Object In Another Recall)
A. Corneal laceration
B. Open globe injury
C. Orbital injury
D. Iritis
Answer: B
2647.Newborn vaginal delivery has prolonged PT and PTT and normal platelet
Vitamin k deficiency
Hemophilia
Answer: A
2648.A 30 primigravida have hx of ectopic pregnancy, what is the percentage of recurrence?
A- 1-5%
B- 6-15%
C- 16-30%
D- >30%
Answer: B
2649.Female had one ABORTION, risk of 2nd abortion?
A- 1-9%
B- 10-25%
C- 25-45%

Answer: B
2650.A 50-year-old woman had a recent miscarriage and is inquiring if her age contributed to the miscarriage.
Which of the following is the most appropriate response?
A. Risk is 3% to occur
B. Age is not related to miscarriage
C. Risk is between 10% to 50%
D. 80% chance of miscarriage due to her age
Answer: C
2651.Patient with URTI 2 days ago and now has edema and hematuria, labs show normal c3 and c4, negative ANCA,
cause?
A. IgA nephropathy
B. Post streptococcal glomerulonephritis
Answer: A
2652.64 years old, male, severe abdominal pain with bloody diarrhea O / E: left lower abdominal tenderness, anorexia,
significant abdominal tenderness with guarding Ct showed small collection(20ml) 2x2 in the sigmoid
• observe and Iv antibiotics
• laparotomy and washout
• Laprotomy and segmidictomy
Answer: Observe and Iv antibiotics
2653.
Answer: Iv antibiotic

2654. A sickle cell disease patient underwent bone marrow transplant, post transplant he developed febrile
neutropenia.
What is the appropriate management?
A. Cefepime
B. Vancomycin
C. Doxycycline
D. Ceftriaxone
Answer: A
2655. Patient underwent bone marrow transplantation due to SCD, developed febrile neutropenia and has pneumonia,
she was
given Ceftazidime and shows no improvement , in first week what to add?
A-Vancomycin
B- Tazocine
C- Ceftriaxone
D- amphotericin b
Answer: A-Vancomycin
2656. A 17 year old developed febrile neutropenia and shock post chemotherapy for lymphoma.
Which of the following is the most appropriate initial antibiotic?
A. meropenem
B. vancomycin
C. cefuroxime
D. Caspofungin
Answer: A
2657. A Sickle cell disease patient who underwent bone marrow transplant. He got a fever 1 day after the procedure.
He was
started on ceftazidime but did not improve after 72 hours. There was no pneumonia or hypotension. What to add ?
A. Voriconazole
B. Ceftriaxone
C. Sulfamethoxazole
D. Vancomycin
Answer: A

2658. Patient underwent bone marrow transplantation due to SCD, developed febrile neutropenia and has ]NO[
Pneumonia , she
was given Ceftazidime and shows no improvement, what to add?
A- Vancomycin
B- Tazocin
C- Ceftriaxone
D- Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole
Answer: A- Vancomycin (Confirmed)
2659.
2660. A 30 or 40 -year-old man noticed easy bleed when he brush his teeth. He presented with a rash on his lower
legs, and he has
very severe thrombocytopenia, 5 × 10⁹/L . Also hemoglobin was below normal ( 12.5) , WBC: 7.6 (100% sure of the
labs)
On blood film, there was no schistocyte and no platelet clumping
A. Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( ITP)
B. Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP)
C. Aplasic anemia
Answer: A. Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura ( ITP)
2661. Carcinoid tumor found after appendectomy, 2 cm, at the base, management?
Right hemicolectomy
Observation
Answer: Right hemicolectomy
2662. Strongest risk factor related to endometrial hyperplasia/cancer ?

Infertility
Obesity
COCP
Menarche at young age
Answer: Obesity
Q: 45 yrs female, G3 P3 , with PCOS, BMI: 31
what of the following contributes the highest risk for endometrial cancer?
a- Age
b- PCOS
c- parity
d- BMI
Answer: BMI
Q: Pt 45y pco htn dm intramenctrwal bleeding risk of endometrial ca
Age
Pco
Htn
Dm
2663. Which of the following is the most sugges5ve of hemolysis as
a cause for neonatal hyperbilirubinemia?
A. Low re9culocyte count
B. Nega9ve direct Coombs test result
C. Increased conjugated bilirubin level
D. Increased unconjugated bilirubin level
Answer: C
2664.

2665. A 76-year-old with prosthetic mitral valve presents with fever and a new murmur; blood cultures pending.
Best empirical antibiotic regimen?
A. Vancomycin + ceftriaxone
B. Vancomycin + gentamicin + rifampicin
C. Vancomycin alone
D. Ceftriaxone alone
Answer: B. Vancomycin + gentamicin + rifampicin
2666. A 65-year-old smoker with PAD on aspirin/clopidogrel/insulin has normal lipids. What should be
added?
A. Beta-blocker
B. Calcium channel blocker
C. Atorvastatin
D. Losartan
Answer: C. Atorvastatin
2667. 65-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension is admied with extensive anterior ST elevaon myocardial
infarcon
(STEMI). had successful angioplasty and stenng to le anterior descending artery. Aspirin, clopidogrel, bisoprolol and
enalapril were started (see lab results).
Test Result Normal Values
Cholesterol (HDL) 1.0 > 1.03 mmol/L
Cholesterol (LDL) 3.36 <3.36 mmol/L
Total Cholesterol 5.0 <5.1 mmol/L
Triglycendes 2.2 <2.16 mmol/L
Which of the following is recommended?
A. No additional medication is indicated

B. Atorvastatin
C. Fenofibrate
D. Niacin
Answer: B. Atorvastatin
2668. A 34-year-old asymptomatic with fasting glucose 7.3 and HbA1c 6.3%. Best next step?
A. Repeat A1c in 6 weeks
B. Repeat fasting glucose in 3 months
C. Oral glucose tolerance test
D. Random blood glucose
Answer: C
2669. 55-year-old man with a family history of type 2 diabetes undergoes screening (see lab
results).
Blood pressure 130/85 mmH
Heart rate 80 /min
Height 185 cm
Weight 91 kg
Test Result Normal Values
Glucose, fas7ng 7.4 3.5-6.5 mmol/L
Hemoglobin A1C 6.3 4.7-5.6%
Which of the following should be recommended?
A. Random plasma glucose
B. Haemoglobin A1C a\er 6 weeks
C. Fas7ng plasma glucose a\er 3 months
D. 2-hour 75 g oral glucose tolerance test
Answer: D. 2-hour 75 g oral glucose tolerance test
2670. An 18-year-old with new T1DM after DKA, now stable and ready for discharge. Best insulin regimen?
A. Twice-daily premixed insulin
B. Basal-bolus (glargine + aspart)
C. Sliding scale only
D. NPH twice daily
Answer: B

2671. A 20-year-old woman is diagnosed of type 1 diabetes mellitus aer presenng with diabec
ketoacidosis. Her blood sugars are now stable and she is ready for discharge. Which of the following is
the best insulin regime she should be offered as outpaent?
A. Twice daily NPH insulin
B. Once daily mixtard insulin
C. Basal-bolus insulin regimen with once-daily insulin glargine
D. Rapid-acng insulin analogue before each meal with no longer acng insulin
Answer: C
2672. A 45-year-old with DKA, K+ 2.5 mmol/L, started on IV uids and insulin.
What complication should be anticipated?
A. Hyperglycemia rebound
B. Worsening hypokalemia
C. Metabolic alkalosis
D. Hypercalcemia
Answer: B
2673. A 20-year-old with diffusely enlarged thyroid, irregular pulse, high T4/T3,
low TSH. Initial symptomatic treatment?
A. Methimazole
B. Propylthiouracil
C. Beta-blocker
D. Radioactive iodine
Answer: C
2674. A 55-year-old with Cushing syndrome due to unilateral adrenal adenoma is scheduled for adrenalectomy. Most
appropriate perioperative management?
A. Perioperative hydrocortisone
B. Perioperative fludrocortisone
C. No supplementation needed
D. Perioperative alpha-blocker
2675.

2676. An 18-year-old female with dizziness on standing and hyperpigmented skin creases, low morning cortisol. Best
conrmatory
test?
A. Dexamethasone suppression test
B. 24-hour urinary cortisol
C. ACTH (synacthen) stimulation test
D. Urinary catecholamines
Answer: C
Q: 25-year-old woman complains of dizziness and feeling light-headed. She is a teacher and
most frequently experiences this when she stand up in the class. She has never fainted. She
lost 5 kg, but aributes this to eang healthy food. She has noced a recent scar on the back of
her hand, which has started to turn very dark as well as generalized skin hyperpigmentaon.
What is the most appropriate invesgaon to confirm the diagnosis?
A. Synacthen test ( ACTH smulaon test)
B. Abdominal ultrasound (US) scan
C. Low-dose dexamethasone test
D. Am corsol measurement
Answer: A. Synacthen test ( ACTH smulaon test)
2677.

2678.
2679. A 45-year-old smoker with squamous cell lung cancer has hypercalcemia.
FDA-approved treatment?
A. Calcitonin
B. Pamidronate
C. Denosumab
D. Clodronate
Answer: C. Denosumab
2680. Which of the following osteoporosis treatment has FDA approval to treat malignancy induced hypercalcemia?
A. Denosumab
B. Alendronate
C. Ibandronate
D. Recombinant human 1-34 PTH (teriparade)
Answer: A. Denosumab (MEDGARD)

2681. A 27-year-old presents with sudden severe headache while bending down, described as "worst of my life." CT
brain is
negative. Next step?
A. MRI brain
B. Lumbar puncture
C. EEG
D. Echocardiography
Answer: B
2682. A 63-year-old with sudden left-sided weakness for 2 hours, CT shows no hemorrhage, BP 160/95. Most
appropriate
management?
A. Aspirin
B. Thrombolytic therapy
C. Control blood pressure only
D. Close observation
Answer: B
2683. A 24-year-old with ascending symmetric limb weakness 2 weeks after gastroenteritis, absent reexes. Most
likely diagnosis?
A. Myasthenia gravis
B. Guillain-Barré syndrome
C. Multiple sclerosis
D. Transverse myelitis
Answer: B
2684. A 12-year-old girl comes to the clinic a\er developing progressive weakness and inability to walk. She has
intermi]ent
7ngling of her fingers and toes. History reveals she had 3 days of diarrhea about 2 weeks ago. Physical examina7on
confirms marked peripheral muscle weakness without atrophy or fascicula7on. The ankle and patella reflexes are
absent,
and a sensory examina7on is normal. Motor involvement is symmetric.
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Guillain-Barré syndrome
B. Mononeuri7s mul7plex

C. Myasthenia gravis
D. Polio
Answer: A
2685. A 55-year-old with resting tremor, bradykinesia, and shuing gait. Site of degeneration responsible?
A. Basal ganglia
B. Cerebellum
C. Substantia nigra
D. Cerebral cortex
Answer: C
2686.
2687. A 67-year-old with hypertension develops sudden right-sided weakness, aphasia. CT shows hypodensity in left
MCA
territory 6 hours after onset.
Best management?
A. Thrombolytic
B. Aspirin
C. Control BP and admit
D. Anticoagulation
Answer: B. Aspirin
2688. A patient with severe asthma exacerbation cannot complete a sentence,
PEFR 30% predicted. This indicates?
A. Mild exacerbation
B. Moderate exacerbation

C. Life Threatening asthma
D. Well-controlled asthma
Answer: C
2689. A 51-year-old woman with asthma complaining of increasing shortness of breath and wheeze in the past few
hours. She has
a long-standing
diagnosis of asthma but her medication history suggests a lack of compliance. Her best peak flow measurements in
previous consultations have
been 300 L/min. Which of the following features suggests acute severe asthma in this patient?
A. Heart rate 100/min
B. Respiratory rate >20/min
C. Peak flow rate 200 L/min
D. Inability to complete sentences in one breath
Answer: D. Inability to complete sentences in one breath (MG)
2690. A 31-year-old man with asthma complaining of increasing wheeze in the past few hours. His medication history
suggests a
lack of compliance. His best peak flow measurements in previous consultations have been 600 L/min. Which of the
following features suggests acute severe asthma in this patient?
A. A peak flow rate of 250 L/min
B. Respiratory rate >20/min
C. Heart rate 100/min
D. SpO2 95%
Answer: A. A peak flow rate of 250 L/min (MG)
2691. A 31-year-old man with asthma complaining of increasing wheeze in the past few hours. He rarely attends
asthma clinic
and his previous best peak flow readings has been 400 L/min. Which of the following would suggest acute severe
asthma?
A. 02 saturation <95%
B. Respiratory rate >25
C. Carotid pulse > 100 bpm
D. Peak flow rate <300 L/min
Answer: B. Respiratory rate >25 (MG)

2692. A 65-year-old smoker with dyspnea, FEV1/FVC <0.7, DLCO low, minimal reversibility. Most likely diagnosis?
A. Asthma
B. Chronic bronchitis
C. Emphysema
D. Pulmonary brosis
Answer: C. Emphysema
Q: A 38-year-old man who is smoker for several years presents to the clinic with progressive shortness of breath.
Pulmonary function test (PFT) done which results in the following parameters: forced expiratory volume (FEV1/forced
vital capacity (FVC) ratio < 0.7 with minimal improvement after bronchodilators low diffusing capacity for carbon
monoxide (DLCO). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Emphysema
B. Bronchial asthma
C. Chronic bronchitis
D. Interstitial lung disease
Answer: A. Emphysema (MEDGARD)
2693. A child presents with a band-like headache that has been occurring for the past 2 weeks. He has been spending
several hours playing electronic games for the past 3 weeks. There are no other concerning symptoms or neurological
abnormalities.
What is the most appropriate next step?
A. Lifestyle modification
B. CT scan of the brain
C. Paracetamol
Answer: A. Lifestyle modification
2694.6 year old child brought by mother for fever and diarrhea. The child look well and all examination and vitals
unremarkable. When asked about vaccine mother said “she did not and will not vaccinate as she thinks they are unsafe
What is yhr most appropriate management from the GP?
A- report to ministry of health
B- explain vaccine are safe and should be used
C- refer to pediatric for management
D- ignore vaccine and manage
ANSWER : B

2695. You are a GP and a mother refuses vaccination for her children.
What should you do?
A. Report to the Ministry of Health
B. Explain the benefits of vaccination
C. Refer her to a pediatrician
ANSWER :B
2696.18-month child was brought to the clinic for a regular checkup. The doctor found out that the child had not taken
any of his scheduled vaccines. He asked the mother why and she replied “Vaccines will make my son retarded!”. What
is the appropriate action?
A) Refer the mother for psychiatric assessment
B) Contact child protection services
C) Explain the benefits of vaccines to the mother
D) Contact the hospital ethics committee
Answer: C
2697.45 year old woman presents with multiple large tender uterine fibroid. She is bleeding and something. She
completed child
bearing and would like to have a non surgical approach
Not vitals or labs, examination mild tend diffuse abdomen
A- Gnrh
B- uterine embolization
C- inform her that surgical is best and she should do total abdominal hysterectomy
D- informer surgcal is best and she should do myomectomy
ANSWER: C
2698.A 47-year-old woman with a large symptomatic uterine fibroid presents with heavy menstrual bleeding. She has
completed
childbearing and has significant comorbidities, including uncontrolled diabetes mellitus and obstructive sleep apnea.
She
prefers non-surgical management. What is the most appropriate management?
A. GnRH agonist
B. Uterine artery embolization
C. Inform her that surgical management is preferred and counsel her regarding hysterectomy
D. Inform her that surgical management is preferred and counsel her regarding myomectomy

ANSWER : B
2699. 19 year first time pregnant woman came with her 6 month or 1 year for failure to gain weight. birth weight is
3.3kg and he is now 4kg. she feeds him 2 table spoon in 90ml water bottle every 3 hrs.
note: no mention of anything else but this. also no mention of breastfeeding the infant. what is the most likely
diagnosis?
A- neglect
B- celiac disease
C- reduced frequency in feeding
D- improper bottle preparation
Answer: D
2700.Patient had low risk and uncomplicated pregnancy comes for labor. Which of the following is the best
intrapartum
surveillance to ensure maternal and fetal wellbeing during labor?
A- Maternal pulse and blood pressure monitoring
B- Uterine contractions monitoring
C- Early identification of possible labor complications
D- Intermittent fetal heart monitoring as it'
2701. 46.pregnant g3 p2 at 38w admitted to L&D with controlled hypertension on medication
Baby is 8th% Asking about intrapartum monitoring
A) Maternal vitals monitoring
B) Intermittent fetal heart monitoring
C) Continuous fetal cardiotocography as a high risk pregnancy
D) early identification for labor complications
ANSWER: C
2702.pregnant, 20weeks gestation, TB symptoms, PE: shows bilateral dulleness on apical lungs. Fever, neck stifness,
and blood
showed interferon gamma assay
vitals normal BP, 37.5C, 110 pulse
the question was which one of the following is the BEST NEXT TO REACH DEFINITIVE DIAGNOSIS?
A- CXR

B- Sputum smear
C- Something i cant remember but far off
D- Sputum smear cytology
ANSWER : B
2703.A 28-year-old woman G 4 P2012 immigrant presented to the Maternal Health Clinic at 20 weeks' gestation with a
cough
and night chills for the past month. The cough is productive and produces thick sputum. She had been prescribed
treatment by a general practitioner for the cough and it had not responded to treatment. Patient nail beds and
conjunctiva
appeared pale and the cervical lymph nodes are palpable. Auscultation of the chest shows crepitation over the
upper left lobe. She had received a BC vaccine as a child. A blood test is positive for interferon-gamma release assays.
Blood pressure 110/70 mmHg
Heart rate 84 /min
Respiratory rate 18 /min
Temperature 37.5° C oral
Which of the following is the next best step in obtaining a definitive diagnosis?
A. Chest X-ray
B. Sputum culture
C. Tuberculin skin test
D. Sputum smear cytology
ANSWER: B
2704.A 35-year-old nulliparous woman at 24 weeks. Insulin-dependent diabetes class F with nephritis, chronic
hypertension on medication. Fundus 25 cm, fetal heart baseline 160 bpm. Which complication is most likely?
A. Stillbirth
B. Pre-eclampsia
C. Shoulder dystocia
D. Large for gestational age
ANSWER: B
2705.A 35-year-old nulliparous woman presents to the Maternal Health Clinic at 24 weeks' gestation.
The significant medical history includes insulin-dependent diabetes class F with nephritis. Additionally, she has
chronic hypertension which is controlled with medication. The pregnancy has been uncomplicated so far. The uterine
funds measured 25 cm above the symphysis and fetal heart tones show a baseline of 160 beats per minute.
Which of the following complications is most likely to occur?

A. Stillbirth
B. Pre-eclampsia
C. Shoulder dystocia
D. Large for gestational age infant
ANSWER: B
2706.A 6-month-old infant presents with recurrent pneumonia, chronic diarrhea, and otitis media. Laboratory
evaluation
reveals normal T-cell counts and undetectable levels of IgG, IgM, and IgA. What is the most likely diagnosis?
A. Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID)
B. X-linked (Bruton) Agammaglobulinemia
Answer: B
2707.Case of pedia pt with nephrotic syndrome on high dose of prednisolone 4 weeks
ago and came for preschool vaccine
A. delay all vaccines until he is off treatment
B. give only dtap
C. give dtap and mmr but no varicella or OPV
D. don’t give Dtap but give varicella
Answer: B
2708.A women is planning to get pregnant ,what is the recommended dose of folic acid in (mg)?
A-1
B-5
C-10
D-15
Answer: A
2709.A 35-year-old woman presents to the Emergency Room with sudden onset of shortness of breath associated
with Severe
Stabbing pleuritic chest pain. . She is using oral contraceptives regularly.
D dimer is ELEVATED .

CTPA showed saddle embolus
Which of the following is the most appropriate managment? ?
A. UFH
B. Aspirin and clopidogrel
C. warfarin.
D. something but NO tPA
Answer: A
2710.6 month infant came with mother Fever plus vomiting. Ill looking, lethargic. PE: revealed mass in upper right
quadrant sausage shape like. what is the most appropriate management?
A- Barium enema
B- Surgical intervention
C- Antibiotic
D- Something i cant remember but not it tho
Answer: B
2711. Young-middle aged man Known of sarcoidosis came with HX of anemia
Sorry I cant remember Laps findings but ferritin was very high (900).
A. Sideroblastic anemia
B. Anemia of chronic disease
Answer: B. Anemia of chronic disease
2712. 8 yrs girl came with hx of fever ,sore throat, painful swallowing.. on examination there is bilateral enlargement
tonsils .. she
start on amoxicillin and after 3 days she divolpe maculopopular rash over trunk :
a. Measles
b. Scarlet fever
C. Kawasaki
D. Infectious mononucleosis
Answer: D

2713.25 years Female complain of breast pain , fatigue start 5 days before menstrual and last for 2 days after :
A. Pre menstrual syndrome
B. Pre menstrual dysphoric
Answer: A
2714.Child came with 3 days hx of headache and neck stiffness.. he denised photophobia ..
Serum glucose: 4.4
CSf analysis show :
Glucose 3.8
Prominent lemphocytes
Protien 450 (normal limit was up to 450)
What is the diagnosis?
A. TB
B. Viral
Answer: B
2715.Young female asymptomatic accidental find of 2cm subserosal fibroid .. she is concern about her future
infertility :
A. Reassure
B. Myomectomy
Answer: A
2716.i dont remember the age. baby came with persistent left eye looking medial and absent red reflex. what is the
most
appropriate next step for managment?
A- eye patch
B- reffer to ophtha
C- unrelated
D- unrelated
Answer: B

2718.LONG CASE AND PATIENT NEED SURGERY but it was mainly INR 6 and already given Vitamin K?
what to give?
A- FFP
B- Cryoprecipitate
C- Vit K
D- 4-PCC
Answer: D
2719. A pediatric patient was diagnosed with phenylketonuria (PKU). What is the most appropriate dietary
management?
A. Restrict phenylalanine
B. Low-protein and low-lactose diet
C. [Option not remembered]
D. [Option not remembered]
Answer: A
2720. Patient with esophageal variceal bleeding was treated with octreotide and endoscopic therapy, but the bleeding
could not
be controlled.
What is the next best step?
A. TIPS
B. Surgical control of bleeding
Answer: A
2721. 3ys boy Pharyngitis case, throat fast swab positive, What to do to prevent complications?
A. Penicillin for 10 days
B. Influenza vaccine
Answer: A
2722. 6 y.o child came complaining of mild hip and thigh pain, examination: he is febrile, mild-moderate tenderness of
hip joint,
child has mild pain when walking apart from that the child is looking good
US of hip: Joint effusion
WBC: 11
Whats the diagnosis?

A- toxic synovitis
B- septic arthritis
C- jurvinle something (but not JIA)
A- toxic synovitis (Monsters)
Answer: A
2723.
2724.

2725.
2726.
2727.

2728.
2729.

2730.
2731.

2732.
Answer: Proton Pump Inhibitor
2733.
Answer: Dementia

2734.
Answer: Brucella Titers
2735.
Answer: Uterine Atony
2736.
2737.

2738.
2739.
2740.
Answer: B. Lifestyle modification
2741.
Answer: B. Allergic Rhinitis

2742.
Answer: Sickle cell disease

